With the first day of Pro League in the books play continues today with day two. Here’s a look at the match ups and what we can expect.

Due to playing twice yesterday, Evil Geniuses and Luminosity Gaming have a rest day today; meanwhile Team Liquid and Str8 Rippin play twice today due to not playing yesterday.

–

Match 1 – Team Liquid Vs Splyce

Kicking off the day will be an excellent series that should be very close. Both Liquid and Splyce have consistently shown themselves to be top four teams and today will help order them for the season.

Liquid have yet to play and are certain to be seeking victory in their Pro League season debut. As a team they have only been defeated by OpTic and EnVyUs at major events, so the edge has to be given to them heading into the series today.

For Splyce this will be their second match, narrowly advancing past Evil Geniuses yesterday in a close 3-2 series. While EG certainly looked better than expected, they aren’t at the level that Team Liquid is causing concern for Splyce today.

Splyce has enough talent to make the series interesting but expect Liquid to close it out.

Prediction: Team Liquid 3-2

–

Match 2 – OpTic Gaming Vs Team EnVyUs

The second match is everyone’s favorite rivalry in Halo 5 and the battle for first between the two best teams in professional Halo. Both OpTic and nV were able to easily dismantle their opposition yesterday with 3-0 series wins. Today won’t be so easy.

OpTic Gaming will certainly be looking to avenge their loss to EnVyUs at Daytona. While this week’s matchup isn’t as significant as that tournament finals, it will be a good place to begin exacting their revenge.

EnVyUs on the other hand is looking to prove that the victory in Daytona was not a fluke. A victory against OpTic today would make sure their season is off to the right start, but it won’t be easy.

This series is likely to go the full five games but OpTic won’t be likely to let history repeat itself so quickly.

Prediction: OpTic Gaming 3-2

–

Match 3 – Str8 Rippin Vs Ronin Esports

Ronin Esports had a difficult season opener against OpTic Gaming yesterday and unfortunately things won’t be getting much easier for them today against Str8 Rippin. They were easily dismantled yesterday by OpTic, providing Str8 Rippin with some early footage to analyze.

Str8 Rippin are coming in off a 5th/6th place finish at Daytona, slightly better than Ronin who finished 7th/8th. Str8 should be looking to use this matchup as a warmup for their second series against Liquid, which will certainly be more challenging.

Looking past Ronin could be dangerous, but Str8 should be able to walk away with the win in this one.

Prediction: Str8 Rippin 3-1

–

Match 4 – Team Liquid Vs Str8 Rippin

The final series of the day will see both teams playing their second match meaning momentum could certainly play a factor. Regardless of what happens earlier in the day however Team Liquid will certainly be the favorite heading into the final match of the day.

This current iteration of the Team Liquid roster has been strong enough to contend with the likes of EnVyUs and OpTic, meaning they should be able to get past Str8. They will have to ensure they don’t look past this Str8 Rippin roster however, as it could certainly make Liquid pay if they do.

Prediction: Team Liquid 3-1

–

You can catch all the action live today over at twitch.tv/halo or beam.pro/halo starting at 7:30PM EST/ 4:30PM PST.
