An incredible championship Sunday for the 2017 HCS Summer Finals at Dreamhack in Atlanta has helped shake up some of the scene’s strongest narratives.

$200 000 was up for grabs at ESL’s season ending double elimination tournament taking place in one of North America’s premiere esports events.

Over 80 teams entered the open bracket on July 21st to fight for four spots in the championship bracket and one of two chances at making it into the next season of Pro League.

Two days later only six teams remained to compete for the title in what proved to be one of Halo 5’s most successful events. Championship Sunday was filled with intense moments and surprises, and ushered in a new generation to the highest level of competitive success.

x

OpTic Gaming No Longer the Kings

OpticDHA

The headline of the event is OpTic Gaming falling to Splyce decisively on two separate occasions. While OpTic entered the event having lost the last major LAN in Daytona, they were still considered to be the favorites heading into this Summer Season Final on the back of an undefeated regular season.

This was their moment to affirm their grip over the HCS throne, however Splyce foiled those plans leading to legitimate questions about who the best team in the HCS really is. One thing is for sure, you won’t see every expert and analyst predict the same team winning the next event. OpTic now has legitimate competition.

–

Splyce Wins – The Younger Generation is Here

Splyce DHA

The victory by Splyce not only demonstrated that OpTic could be beaten, but also that the younger generation of Halo players have now fully matured and become legitimate contenders for a championship.

Until this point in Halo 5 success had primarily been distributed between OpTic and EnVyUs, but Dreamhack offered a platform for the rise of a new talent. Most exciting about this Splyce victory is the young age of the team. These players are relatively new to professional Halo, but have quickly become shining examples for aspiring youngsters looking to start their own professional Halo careers.

–

Halo’s Elite Four

elitefourdha

The one thing all four final teams had in common was that they are the only teams able to compete with one and other. While Dreamhack served as an excellent display of both professional and amateur talent, there is a still a large gap between the absolute best teams and everybody else.

The good thing for Halo is that this group has been steadily getting bigger. Halo 5 began with only OpTic and EnVyUs in serious contention for the top spot but they have now been joined by Team Liquid and Splyce. The addition of more teams to that upper echelon, with many of the players being very young talents, is both exciting and inspiring for everyone who loves competitive Halo.

Advertisement
–

Evil Geniuses’ Still Got It

egdha

Things had been looking bleak for one of Halo’s oldest duos, but this weekend Evil Geniuses proved that they could still compete at the highest professional level. EG entered the past season of the HCS with an unclear future, but were able to secure themselves a position into the championship bracket and avoid relegation.

Coming to play in Atlanta, they were able to effective prove their placement in the regular season was not a fluke. Although they were quickly swept by Team EnVyUs to end their weekend, they are able to out compete any of the teams not in the elite four.  This will make them an excellent benchmark team to measure other squads against next season.

Advertisement
–

Teams Outside the HCS Have Pro Potential

amateursdha
