The Big Three

The only three teams that did not alter their rosters in the offseason, Team Liquid, EnVyUs and Optic Gaming will have to come into this tournament as the three favourites. I have them ranked as follows:

Optic Gaming – The uncontested kings of Halo 5. It is impossible to imagine a tournament without them in the finals and their dominating performance at the World Championship in March makes it foolish to bet against them.
Team EnVyUs – Despite not performing as well in the new year as they did in their initial few months, this is still the most intimidating roster on paper other than Optic Gaming. Having finally avenged their previous losses to Liquid by defeating them at the World Championship they can refocus their attention on dethroning the champs.
Team Liquid – A very realistic argument can be made that this is currently the second best team in the HCS. Despite falling to nV at the World Championship they had beaten them in the two previous tournaments. While their teamwork will be able to carry them to victory over everyone else, the top two squads have an overwhelming amount of firepower


The Dark Horse

The most exciting scenario in any tournament or playoff situation is an underdog team that nobody expected to get as far as it did. With the incredible amount of young talent in the scene multiple teams could fulfil this role at any one time, however, Splyce stands out as the obvious choice to do so.

The roster has an excellent balance of raw talent and veteran decision making providing a home for some of Halo’s youngest pros to develop as players and fulfill their potential.

The roster consists of young fan favourite, Jesse “bubu dubu” Moeller, veteran leader Ryan “Shooter” Sondhi, and the up and coming superstar Anthony “Shotzzy” Cuevas who was too young to compete until recent rule changes. This trio managed to secure a top 6 finish at the World Championship and upset Team EnVyUs in pool play to prove they are capable of beating the very best.

Since then they have added Jonathan “Renegade” Willette to the roster, another incredibly talented young player who has consistently impressed since his professional debut in St. Louis last season. The one thing this squad does not lack is talent, making them a dangerous opponent for even the best teams in Halo and a prime contender to pull an upset this weekend.

Advertisement


Amateurs?

Through the open bracket one team to keep an eye on will be the new acquired Oxygen Supremacy roster. Playing in the online placement cups as TBD they were defeated by Splyce last weekend in the finals, preventing them from having a starting spot in the championship bracket.

Despite having to play through the open bracket, little is amateur about this squad. The roster consists of three former professional players including one of the most intelligent minds in Halo in Ryan “RyaNoob” Geddes, alongside sharpshooter Cody “ContrA” Szczodrowski and Kyle “Nemassist” Kubina. Rounding out the roster is the one true amateur player on their squad Troy “DasTroyed” Dusman.

This team should be able to make quick work of all of their open bracket matchups and give some of the established professional teams some very close games.


Player To Watch

With his team looking to win the entire tournament one player to pay close attention to this weekend will be the wizard himself Justin “Pistola” Deese.

A long time veteran of the competitive Halo scene and often regarded as one of the most talented players to ever be involved in Halo Pistola has forever had the ability to single-handedly turn situations, games and series around for his team. His intelligent and unique play style have allowed him to dominate in a way few players ever have across multiple titles.

2017 has not been his greatest year to date however as he has struggled to find his usual groove. He and his teammates missed the finals for back to back events, something that lineup was never supposed to do. Although the team rebounded at the World Championship and took second place Pistola did not. The only player to have a negative Kill/Death ratio on his team he also only averaged more damage per game dealt than three other players on top eight rosters.

The Pistola we know has been a dominant force in competitive Halo since he entered it, watch for him to prove a point this weekend.

Advertisement


Old Grudges Die Hard

While it has been a long time since Tony “LethuL” Campbell left his former teammate Eric “Snip3down” Wrona the two are still incredibly competitive. Representing Optic Gaming and Team EnVyUs respectively, the pair consistently find each other in the tournament finals adding an additional narrative to an already fantastic matchup.

While it has usually been Lethul who has walked away with the bragging rights, Snip3down and his squad are the only ones to defeat the Optic roster at a major event since it has begun playing under the Optic banner. This will be one series you don’t want to miss.

Tune in live on the official Halo Twitch and Beam channels starting at 3PM EST on Friday May 12th for open bracket action.

Championship bracket play will take place on Saturday and Sunday with 11:15AM EST and 12:15PM EST start times respectively.
