Match 1 – Evil Geniuses Vs Team EnVyUs

With Team EnVyUs narrowly losing to OpTic last week, they come into this match with the same 1-1 record as Evil Geniuses.


Despite the even ranking after the first week of play, the series will likely be fairly one sided. EnVyUs has looked incredibly strong since Daytona and has only ever been defeated by OpTic and Liquid. History will be on their side tonight.

Although Evil Geniuses certainly looked better last week than they did in Daytona, the roster still showed it has a ways to go before competing with the upper echelon teams such as EnVyUs.

A strong start could net EG a win or two but expect nV to take the series.

Prediction: Team EnVyUs 3-1


Match 2 – Luminosity Gaming Vs Team Liquid

Luminosity Gaming didn’t have the start they would have liked to this season of Pro League, dropping both their matches in week one and securing only a single map. Unfortunately for them, this week won’t be any easier as they will have to defeat Liquid if they want to get a win on the board.

Team Liquid didn’t have the start they necessarily would have liked either, being defeated 3-0 by Splyce in their first series. Although they won their second series last week, Liquid is a roster that knows it should be in the top 3 in the standings. Look for them to prove that tonight.

Prediction: Team Liquid 3-1



Match 3 – Str8 Rippin’ Vs OpTic Gaming

Str8 Rippin’ is the only team other than Luminosity without a win in the Pro League so far and it will be even more difficult to get one this week squaring off against OpTic Gaming.

Although OpTic faltered in Daytona, they have recovered since to go 2-0 to start the first week of Pro League, including a reverse sweep of Team EnVyUs. The roster has been the most consistent throughout Halo 5’s history, and there is no reason for that trend to change this week.

Prediction: OpTic Gaming 3-0


Match 4 – Ronin Esports Vs Splyce

Splyce will be coming into this week as the only team other than OpTic to go undefeated in week one making this difficult matchup even harder for Ronin. The young Splyce roster demonstrated that the pressure of Pro League would not phase them, and have only appeared to get stronger with each appearance.

Ronin Esports will be entering the series on the back of an impressive win over Str8 Rippin last week, but will face far stiffer competition from Splyce. Ronin will require incredible individual performances to match the firepower Splyce brings to this matchup.

Prediction: Splyce 3-1


You can catch all the action live today over at twitch.tv/halo or beam.pro/halo starting at 7:30PM EST/ 4:30PM PST.
