It was revealed on Saturday June 10th that the Team Liquid and Str8 Rippin Halo teams have gone through with a straight player trade.

Both elite North American teams are struggling more than anticipated as part of the HCS Pro League, with Str8 winning none of their first three games, whilst Team Liquid sit just one win from theirs.

It has now been announced that Tim ‘Rayne’ Tinkler will be leaving Liquid, swapping with former OpTic Gaming player, Aaron ‘Ace’ Elam.

The move comes as a shock to many in the community, with Ace part of the original squad who helped bring back the brand. He picked up a number of notable achievements alongside Bradley ‘aPG’ Laws and Richie ‘Heinz’ Heinz, including fourth at the 2017 Halo World Championships.

Str8 Rippin made a statement on their Reddit page to explain further.

“Str8 Rippin and Team Liquid have reached a trade agreement to send Aaron “Ace” Elam to Liquid in exchange for Tim “Rayne” Tinkler in a move that both teams feel will strengthen its current roster. While both squads have consistently placed in the top 4 over the last 6 months, a slow start to the HCS Pro League for both teams sparked discussions which lead to this eventual trade.

We’re extremely excited to welcome Rayne to Str8 Rippin and can’t wait to see him work with our current group. I’m confident his play style, communication, leadership, and overall game will mesh well with APG, Danoxide, and Heinz.

I’d also like to take this time to thank Ace for his time on Str8 Rippin. He’s a big part of our history ever since coaching Str8 Rippin to our 2008 National Championship, and it was an honor returning the favor in 2010 and recently again at HCS Daytona.”

Advertisement
Whether the swap will improve both teams results will be tested across the remaining four weeks of the HCS Pro League.

Team Liquid Halo

USA Zane ‘Subzero’ Hearon
USA Braedon ‘Stellur’ Boettcher
USA Kevin ‘Eco’ Smith
USA Aaron ‘Ace’ Elam
–

Str8 Rippin Halo

USA Bradley ‘aPG’ Laws
USA Richie ‘Heinz’ Richie
USA Dan ‘Danoxide’ Terlizzi
USA Tim ‘Rayne’ Tinkler
