The current roster for Team EnVyUs was built with one thing in mind, winning.

The line-up was an immediate success, reaching the finals of their first tournament together at the HCS Orange County 2016 event. They then won HCS Las Vegas 2016, although OpTic Gaming was notably not in attendance, and secured first in the regular season of the HCS Pro League.

To prove this online dominance wasn’t a fluke, they came through the loser’s bracket to win the season finals of the Pro League on LAN defeating OpTic in the finals in two separate series.

On paper the Team EnVyUs roster is one of the scariest in the HCS. Comprising of two of Halo’s all time greatest pros in Justin “Pistola” Deese and Eric “Snip3down” Wrona, those two names alone are enough to make any team an instant contender.

Playing alongside them is the up and coming superstar, having made the transition from Call of Duty to Halo, Cuyler “Huke” Garland, all led by team captain Austin “Mikwen” McCleary.

A squad of this calibre should be in every event finals and consistently fighting for first place against OpTic, much like we saw the team do in the first few months of the roster’s existence, but unfortunately for the boys in blue however 2017 hasn’t gone so smoothly.

The year began with consecutive LAN tournaments in which they failed to make the finals, finishing in 3rd place both times. While part of this certainly can be attributed to the strength of recent performances by the Team Liquid roster, EnVyUs is a highly competitive squad that will take no comfort in that fact.

These fumbles cast doubt over the Team EnVyUs team heading into the 2017 Halo World Championship, where they were no longer the unanimous favourites to square off against OpTic in the finals.

Initially the quartet ran into trouble, losing against Splyce in the group stage forcing them to make a loser’s bracket run through the tournament.

This early loss lit a fire under nV, and they would not drop another game until the loser’s bracket finals where they bested Liquid for the first time in three events. The showdown with OpTic Gaming in the grand finals had been set, but Team EnVyUs were out of gas and were quickly swept while they watched OpTic Gaming take the title home again.

The version of nV that played through that losers bracket is what everybody wants to see, and what the team needs to see from themselves. Made up of highly competitive players who pride themselves on being the absolute best in the game, losing is not in the vernacular of some of the players on this roster.

If results don’t begin to meet those expectations, who knows what the future for the boys in blue looks like. All of the players on nV have left high level contending teams in the past that were not winning tournaments to create or join new ones that they felt had a better chance to do just that. Second and third place will just not be acceptable f0r long.

One thing that is for certain is that Team EnVyUs will be looking to prove the team that won the 2016 Pro League finals is still very capable of winning an event when they head to Daytona, Florida this weekend.

Making the finals at the World Championship is certainly an accomplishment to be proud of, but this roster wants to prove to the world that they can beat everyone, including OpTic Gaming, not just compete with them.

To watch and support Team EnVyUs and the rest of the professional Halo teams battle it out tune into the official Halo Twitch and Beam channels on Saturday and Sunday at 11:15AM EST and 12:15PM respectively.
