The 2017 HCS Summer Season has all come down to this. The top North American teams will be joined by the top four European teams in the biggest Halo tournament since the World Championship.

With a highly competitive open bracket, two North American professional squads facing relegation and the top European rosters in attendance, there is an endless amount of action to discuss. Here is a look at what to expect:

–

The Open Bracket

With complications around registration, it is uncertain how many teams will be in attendance, however it looks like it could be the most successful open event yet. This isn’t just a regular open bracket however, the two teams that advance through it at the top will be awarded the final 2 coveted HCS Pro League slots for the Fall season, making the event ultra competitive.

Both Ronin Esports and Str8 Rippin struggled significantly this past season, however, they do have vast amounts of professional experience on their rosters’ and should proceed with ease until the final matches of the bracket.

This is where things get very intriguing. Anyone familiar with Halo’s amateur circuit is well aware of the strength Oxygen Supremacy has demonstrated recently. A team with plenty of professional experience of its own, this is the amateur squad with the best chances of taking a spot in next season’s Pro League.

The matchup they would ideally want is Str8 Rippin. It is a roster that has gone through all sorts of changes giving it less cohesion than Ronin. With Oxygen Supremacy being the best Amateur team so far this should be the matchup they get. If so, we very well might see a new team in the HCS next season and say goodbye to one of Halo’s oldest organizations.

Prediction: Ronin Esports and Oxygen Supremacy Qualify for the HCS

–

The European Invitees

The premier European teams have traditionally struggled to perform against the most elite North American ones, and I don’t expect that to be different this weekend. With the four teams all being seeded into the championship bracket, I expect they will be able to beat some of the amateur teams that squeak in, but not do a whole lot more.

Advertisement
Infused is the one team with different potential. The undefeated kings of Europe have some of the best talents on that side of the pond, and could pose a legitimate threat to anybody but the most elite of North American teams. If a European team is going to break the top 8, this is the roster to do it.

Prediction: Invictus, Supremacy and Vexed Gaming finish 9-16. Infused finish 7/8th.

–

The Champions

Finally the question of who will finish this weekend on top. Realistically there are only 3 teams that could be given any probability of winning the event being OpTic Gaming, Team EnVyUs and Splyce in that order.

While OpTic faltered at the last major event in Daytona an undefeated summer season makes betting against them incredibly risky. This roster has consistently been the best over the course of Halo 5, and they don’t lose twice in a row. The only team you want to avoid more than OpTic Gaming is an OpTic roster that lost their last event. This is what everyone will have to contend with in Atlanta if they hope to exit victorious.

Advertisement
Team EnVyUs didn’t have the regular season they were hoping for this summer but this is one of the most talented and experienced rosters in Halo, and they demonstrate that regularly at major events. They are a mainstay in the top 3 and considered OpTic’s greatest rival. They have been known to start slow, but if they arrive on Sunday the final series is always an incredible one to watch. For them, this is an opportunity to be the first team other than OpTic to win 2 in a row, and prove that they are truly equal.

Splyce is the squad that can throw a monkey wrench into either of the above team’s plans. Although the roster is relatively young it is incredibly talented and home to many of the biggest talents in the newer generation of Halo professionals. They were defeated only by OpTic in the regular season, making a strong case that they could be in the finals of this event as well. They are certainly the team both OpTic and nV will have to be very careful when playing.

Prediction: 1st OpTic Gaming, 2nd Team EnVyUs, 3rd Splyce
