The first day of action in the 2017 HCS Summer Pro League Kicks off today. Here’s a look at the match ups and what we can expect.

Note that Str8 Rippin and Team Liquid will not be playing today and instead play twice tomorrow; Evil Geniuses and Luminosity Gaming play twice today instead.

–

Match 1 – OpTic Gaming Vs Ronin Esports

Despite falling just short of the tournament victory in Daytona, OpTic Gaming have to be the favorite heading into this series. This OpTic roster has consistently proven itself to be the team to beat over the course of Halo 5 and this season of Pro League should be no different.

While the Ronin lineup certainly has enough firepower to pose a threat to the majority of professional teams, OpTic Gaming likely won’t be one of them.

The Ronin squad has too little experience together to realistically expect to contend with OpTic week one. The roster is definitely a talented one however, and certainly one to keep an eye on moving forward.

Prediction: OpTic Gaming 3-0

–

Match 2 – Splyce Vs Evil Geniuses

This matchup will be an interesting display of the new younger talent that has recently entered the professional ranks. Splyce has been a fan favorite since the roster’s inception and have consistently finished ahead of Evil Geniuses at events, giving them a definitive edge heading into this series.

EG will not be the same team that we saw in Daytona either. Brett ‘Naded’ Leonard retiring means that the young Mexican talent Josbe ‘Tapping Buttons’ Valadez will be given a chance to compete in the North American region. The Evil Geniuses roster is now a very interesting combination of veteran presence and undeveloped talent making the future very intriguing.

With only a week under their belt as a team, however, Evil Geniuses will be hard pressed to find a victory tonight against a team as strong as Splyce.

Prediction: Splyce 3-1

–

Match 3 – Team EnVyUs Vs Luminosity

Riding the momentum of their recent victory in Daytona, Team EnVyUs will be a difficult team to beat in the opening week of Pro League. The roster has consistently shown itself to be one of the elite teams in competitive Halo, and the only roster to dethrone OpTic Gaming. This makes them an undisputed favorite in nearly every series they play and this one will be no different.

Luminosity has consistently proven themselves to be an average professional team, that has traditionally been unable to stand up to the stronger teams like nV on the circuit. If there is something Luminosity can exploit, it is that nV has traditionally been a team to start slow.

Even if nV does have a slow start, it will be difficult for Luminosity to secure the series before the Boys in Blue find their footing.

Prediction: Team EnVyUs 3-1

–

Match 4 – Luminosity Vs Evil Geniuses

If you want an interesting series that really could go either way on day one, this is sure to be it. With both teams playing previously in the day momentum from their previous series could definitely be a contributing factor in the outcome.

Since both teams will likely be coming off a loss, it will be about which team is able to regroup and respond in the pressure of kicking off Pro League with an 0-2 record. With some really young new faces on Evil Geniuses I give the edge to Luminosity in this department, and think that will be enough to help them close out the series.

Prediction: Luminosity 3-2

–

You can catch all the action live today over at twitch.tv/halo or beam.pro/halo starting at 7:30PM EST/ 4:30PM PST.
