We have now officially completed over half of the 2017 Summer HCS Season. With teams only having 3 matches left to play each, every series left is of paramount importance.

–

Match 1 – Splyce Vs Team EnVyUs

Today kicks off with two of the best teams in the Pro League battling it out, as the undefeated Splyce squad take on Team EnVyUs. Splyce has yet to lose a match this season and hope to continue that streak today against the third ranked Team EnVyUs.

EnVyUs’ loss yesterday saw Splyce leap frog them into second with limited fixtures remaining on the schedule. Splyce still have a tough game to play against OpTic but second place is very much in their hands.

This series is almost certain to be a crucial one and will likely decide which team takes second place this season. This is one you won’t want to miss.

Prediction: Splyce  3-2

–

Match 2 – OpTic Gaming Vs Luminosity Gaming

OpTic Gaming look to continue their undefeated streak and cement their place at the top of the HCS leaderboards with yet another victory against Luminosity this evening.

OpTic has only lost two individual maps out of the fourteen they’ve played, making it very difficult to predict any team other Splyce or EnVyUs even having a chance.

Luminosity was able to perform well yesterday against the new Ronin lineup and emerge with a victory, but they will need to do even better to emerge with a similar result today.

Luckily for Luminosity, this isn’t a series they are expected or required to win. They will likely end the week content with the 1-1 outcome.

Prediction: OpTic Gaming 3-0

–

Match 3 – Evil Geniuses Vs Str8 Rippin

Despite the roster change Str8 Rippin made during the break, the team were unable to improve for their debut yesterday and were handily dismantled 3-0 by Splyce.

While their competition will be slightly easier today against Evil Geniuses, Str8 still enter the series as heavy underdogs against superior opposition.

Despite being taken down by OpTic Gaming 3-0 yesterday, Evil Geniuses has had a better start than most expected to this season of Pro League, and have been playing very well.

While the team doesn’t yet look like it can contend with the HCS title chasers, they should be able to make quick work of the troubled Str8 Rippin roster.

Prediction: Evil Geniuses 3-1

–

Match 4 – Ronin Esports Vs Team Liquid

Both teams were involved in trades during the season break and previewed their new rosters for the first time yesterday as play resumed.

The Ronin team have definitely improved but were still taken down in a close series by Luminosity Gaming. Liquid, on the other hand, seem to have been given a new lease of life with the addition of Aaron ‘Elam’ Ace to the roster and played phenomenally last night taking down Team EnVyUs in the process.

Yesterday definitely showed improvement for both rosters and was a definitive step in the right direction. When comparing the immediate results however, it is clear that Liquid has adapted to their new roster more quickly and effectively. Expect the same tonight.

Prediction: 3-1 Team Liquid

–

You can catch all the action live today over at twitch.tv/halo or beam.pro/halo starting at 7:30PM EST/ 4:30PM PST.
