The relegation matches determining what teams will enter the 2017 Fall season of the HCS Pro League have been played.

After playing through the open bracket, only a few teams remained with a chance to qualify for the next season of the HCS Pro League.

The first deciding relegation match was between Ronin Esports and Oxygen Supremacy.

Oxygen Supremacy entered the match after defeating Str8 Rippin, the other HCS Pro League team entering the tournament facing relegation, in an impressive 3-1 fashion.

In the first Pro League spot decider match, Ronin was able to secure an early lead with a victory in game one, before Oxygen Supremacy rebounded in the slayer for game two.

This would prove to be the theme of the series, as Ronin would secure the next two objective games before Oxygen Supremacy took another slayer to make the series 3-2.

Game six was plagued with technical issues that caused a long delay before the start of the match, effectively resetting the momentum of the series.

What followed in the reset was a back and forth game of CTF on Fathom that saw both teams tied at two with only a minute left in regulation time.

Ronin Esports got themselves a few kills and did not hesitate, quickly running the flag to secure the victory in the game and series with only 30 seconds remaining.

This left Oxygen Supremacy to wait for the winner between Str8 Rippin and Wise Gaming.

Wise was able to back Str8 into a corner and gained an early 2-1 series lead, but it was as far as they would get, as Str8 turned the series around in game four and set the stage for a rematch of these two teams.

Advertisement
The rematch picked up where their original encounter left off, and Oxygen Supremacy quickly found themselves ahead 2-0 in the series.

Game three continued in much the same fashion, as Str8 Rippin fell 3-0 on Truth CTF in a shocking two and a half minutes.

With their backs against the wall, game four was Str8 Rippin’s moment to turn things around if they were going to pull out a victory in this series.

Unfortunately for Halo’s oldest organization, it was not meant to be, and Oxygen Supremacy swept them out of the league.

This gave Oxygen Supremacy a 7-1 game count over Str8 Rippin on the day, proving without a doubt that the final Pro League slot is rightfully theirs.

With these matches concluded, we now know the eight teams that will compete in the upcoming Fall season of the HCS Pro League.

They will be:

OpTiC Gaming
Team EnVyUs
Splyce
Team Liquid
Luminosity
Evil Geniuses
Ronin Esports
Oxygen Supremacy
Action is not done for any of these teams just yet however.

They have all qualified for the Championship Bracket, giving them another opportunity to prove themselves against the best teams in the world.
