After a HCS Summer Season without recording a single series victory, Str8 Rippin enters Dreamhack Atlanta this weekend facing relegation.

Despite being the longest standing names in competitive Halo, and a brand that has enjoyed long term success over multiple titles, their slot in the HCS is about to be in jeopardy at the Summer Finals.

After a winless beginning to the season, Str8 elected to make a roster shuffle to try and give the team new life.

x

Read More:

HCS Extends Signup Date After Outrage
DrDisrespect Banned from PUBG
Commentators Hit Out at Social Media Conduct
x

Advertisement
Trading longtime mainstay of the roster Aaron ‘Ace’ Elam for Tim ‘Rayne’ Tinkler from Team Liquid appeared at first to be a promising move.

Liquid had been a team that had been consistently placing in the top-three, but also struggled to start the season, making it possible for one of their players to be acquired. Acquiring a quality player in Rayne, unfortunately, wasn’t enough to solve Str8’s problems.

The trade prompted Bradley ‘APG’ Laws to depart the team as well, causing Hamza ‘Commonly’ Abbaali to join in his place. Even with the roster shuffle, Str8 was unable to find any more success in the latter half of the season, making for a depressing end to an already sad story.

Things got even worse for Str8 when Commonly announced his departure, forcing the squad to pick up Joel ‘Kaotic’ Rodriguez in his place. This means Str8 will enter Atlanta fighting for their lives through the open bracket to regain their spot in the top-eight and not get relegated.

The team will be forced to rely on the veteran presence of Richie ‘Heinz’ Heinz, who is now the longest standing member of the roster, in order to carry themselves through the difficulties and trials of an open bracket run.

Despite the incredible success Heinz has found throughout his career and Rayne’s recent success, Str8’s place in the HCS is far from secure.

x

Read More:

CS:GO Players Agree Crouch Jumping Glitch Gentleman’s Agreement
Nick Mercs Reveals New Car and Expresses Appreciation
BitterSweet Owner Comes Under Heavy Criticism
x

Advertisement
Their teammates have not had the established success that they have, and open bracket runs can be grueling. Teams such as Oxygen Supremacy have proven themselves to be highly capable and a dangerous opponent for almost any professional team.

Str8 fans can only hope the event the firmly establishes Kaotic as the newest addition to the younger generation of Halo pros while solidifying that position for Daniel ‘Danoxide’ Terlizzi.

If not, it may be the end of the Str8 Rippin logo inside the HCS for now, and with its longstanding history, that isn’t something anybody wants to see.
