The HCS 2017 Summer Pro League season is entering its final two weeks of play. Here is what to expect in today’s action.

Match 1 – Luminosity Gaming Vs Ronin Esports

The first match of the evening is one that has serious implications for the end of the season. With Luminosity and Ronin both sitting at a 1-2 record, a victory tonight will help secure the final playoff spot for DreamHack Atlanta.

This will also be the first series in which we get to see the new Ronin roster. With the team taking advantage of the roster swap period to add Visal ‘El ToWn’ Mohanan in place of Carlos ‘Cratos’ Ayala, Ronin is hoping to prove that the move made their squad significantly stronger.

Luminosity did not choose to make any roster swaps, giving them an edge in chemistry and cohesion heading into the series. This Ronin roster is not one to be overlooked, however, and will give us a close series.

Prediction: Ronin Esports 3-2

–

Match 2 – Splyce Vs Str8 Rippin

Str8 Rippin was involved in the biggest player swap in Halo 5’s history this past week when they traded veteran member Aaron ‘Ace’ Elam to Team Liquid in exchange for Tim ‘Rayne’ Tinkler. Str8 Rippin has not been performing at the level they would have liked thus far this season and hope the shakeup can invigorate the team for the second half of Pro League.

Unfortunately for Str8, their first test will prove to be a difficult one. Splyce has looked incredibly strong all season and have shown no signs of slowing down. Str8 will likely have to use this as a series in which they can learn how they play as a team, as coming away with a victory will be highly unlikely.

Prediction: Splyce 3-1

–

Match 3 – Team EnVyUs Vs Team Liquid

Team Liquid has been one of the only teams to compete with OpTic and EnVyUs in recent memory, but their lackluster start to this season of pro league led to their involvement in the trade with Str8 Rippin discussed above.

While the addition of Ace to their roster is certainly exciting, the team will likely require time to find the cohesion and synergy that the old Liquid roster possessed.

Team EnVyUs has struggled against Liquid in the past, but have looked very strong since Daytona. With Liquid struggling and now looking to adapt to a slightly altered roster, the teamwork and well executed strategies of Team EnVyUs should be enough to give them the victory in this series today.

Prediction: Team EnVyUs 3-1

–

Match 4 – OpTic Gaming Vs Evil Geniuses

The day concludes with OpTic Gaming getting their first glimpse of the new Evil Geniuses squad. EG has been performing better than expected so far in this season of Pro League and have given the other top teams very difficult matches. This is not a series OpTic will be able to take lightly.

Despite how impressive Evil Geniuses has been so far this season, OpTic are still the undisputed kings. While you can never underestimate the Green Wall, this is certainly one of the better chances for a team to do that before the end of this season.

The Evil Geniuses roster is an excellent blend of veteran presence and rising talent that will certainly keep OpTic on their toes. Expect this one to go the full five games.

Prediction: OpTic Gaming 3-2

–

You can catch all the action live today over at twitch.tv/halo or beam.pro/halo starting at 7:30PM EST/ 4:30PM PST.
