With the conclusion of UMG Daytona, we got our first glimpses of the teams heading into the new season of competitive Halo. Here are the major takeaways from the weekend.

Oxygen Supremacy aren’t Amateurs

Having to battle through the Open Bracket, not many people expected Oxygen Supremacy to break into the top eight despite having three former professional players in Ryan ‘RyaNoob’ Geddes, Cody ‘ContrA’ Szczodrowski and Kyle ‘Nemassist’ Kubina.

Troy ‘DasTroyed’ Dusman is the sole amateur player in this lineup and the three ex-pros were determined this weekend to prove to the world that they still have what it takes to compete with the best.

Their experience and skill showed in Florida, as Oxygen Supremacy reached the final four in the Winner Bracket. In doing so they secured victories against Luminosity Gaming and Str8 Rippin, two current professional teams.

Impressively they only dropped a single map throughout those two series combined. In the Winners Semis they eventually fell in an intense series to the eventual tournament champions, Team EnVyUs, but it took all five games to determine a winner.

After falling to nV, Oxygen Supremacy were quickly dispatched 3-0 by Splyce in the Loser Bracket to finish in the top six. Despite how their tournament ended, they deserve nothing but praise for a performance laced with potential. A team to watch out for in the coming season.

–

Team EnVyUs Clutches Up

Making it to the Grand Finals through the Loser bracket means that in order to win the event you have to defeat the team that made it through Winner Bracket in not one, but two, best of seven series.

Team EnVyUs seemed unphased by such a challenge, despite having to face the most dominant squad in recent Halo history, OpTic Gaming.

In both of the final series, nV and OpTic went to a decisive map seven to decide the tie. Despite how back and forth the series were and how close many of the games were between the two squads, the Boys in Blue were able to secure themselves the victories when it was do or die for them.

Winning the Daytona title was especially important for EnVyUs with how they had fared in the past few events.

The final series from the 2017 Halo World Championship had left a bitter taste in the mouth of nV, but victory over their rivals in Daytona offered the first dose of solace in what will be a long an exciting season ahead.

–

Splyce is Getting Better

The current Splyce roster is a talented, young team we had pegged as a potential dark horse coming into the tournament and they lived up to that potential with a stellar showing in Daytona.

Despite only qualifying for a professional seed through an online cup the previous weekend and finishing top 6 at the World Championship, Splyce is now contesting for appearances in the finals.

When Splyce were eventually eliminated from the competition, it was at the hands of Liquid in an incredibly close Loser Bracket Semi Final fixture that took the full seven games to decide a victor.

Considering the two teams played in the group stages of the event, and Splyce walked out as winners, these two teams can easily be considered on an equal playing field.

Look for Splyce to contend with Liquid for spots in the final three at future Major events this season, as well as an upset or two against Optic and nV. They’re the real deal.

Advertisement
–

Evil Geniuses Struggling

The EG roster is no longer the Halo powerhouse it once was, and that was abundantly clear again in Florida.

Despite entering Daytona with a top 8 seed, EG were unable to remain there and ultimately finished inside the top 12.

After being defeated 3-0 by Optic Gaming, they were sent to the Loser Bracket and found Luminosity waiting for them following an upset by Oxygen Supremecy in the first round. This meant at least one professional team was going home early and this time out that team was EG, falling 3-1 to LG.

For a roster boasting two former World Champions and an organization so used to success in every esports title, this result will raise serious questions. What they will do moving forward is still unclear but we can be sure that neither the players nor the organization will be happy with the results Daytona.

–

Competition Level is Rising

The most important thing to note from UMG Daytona was the elevated level of overall competition. With massive setting changes coming into Halo 5 to start the season, this is a slightly different game than competitors have been playing for the past two years, leading to upsets and intense series at all stages of the tournament.

Major benefactors included former professional players like Ryanoob and his friends on Oxygen Supremacy, who were able to compete with the best in the latest iteration of Halo 5.

Meanwhile, the depth of competition has visibly increased, with the teams occupying the 9th-16th placing ranges stacked with former pro players and even world champions, as is the case with Scott ‘Cloud’ Holsta, making many of the matches throughout the Championship Bracket, even the early ones, intense and worth a watch.

We’re also seeing a rise of new talent who can now be considered mainstays in the professional scene. The young Splyce roster continued to impress and looks to expand the group of three teams at the top of the ladder into a group of four. Players like Joe ‘TriPPPeY’ Taylor are proving that the chances they got to join professional teams were not flukes, continuing to impress at the professional level.

With the emergence of the new talent, unfortunately, we’re also seeing some of the scene’s biggest names falling down the pecking order. Twins Justin ‘Roy’ Brown and Jason ‘Lunchbox’ Brown of Evil Geniuses are two such players who’ve seen their form dip dramatically as Halo 5 has worn on.

Despite making the finals in two of the initial four Halo 5 events, they have failed to finish in the top four in the twelve months since.

Daytona was one of the most exciting events in recent Halo history, with it marking the start of a new season can mean only more good things are in store for Halo this year.
