Every team sport has at least one of these players. Highly skilled, considered an all time great, but never earning themselves a major championship. The Charles Barkley of basketball, the Dan Marino of American football, this is the story of that player in Halo’s history,  Brett ‘Naded’ Leonard.

A mainstay of the competitive scene since 2006, Naded has consistently performed at an elite level, reaching six tournament finals and finishing third eight times. Although he has had many trips to the final stages of a tournament, Naded has never been able to take the final step and claim victory.

Not every player who can be described this way has fallen short for the same reasons; some cannot handle such intense pressure, while others are never able to find the perfect team with which they can emerge victorious, constantly living in the shadows of other legends. Both of these were realities at times for Naded.

With his recent announcement that he would be retiring from competitive Halo, today we explore his story, the greatest player to never win.

–

The Beginning – Halo 2

451px-ML08Fatal

Naded first appeared on the competitive circuit in 2006, on a team called Storm Ventures alongside future World Champion Bryan ‘Legit’ Rizzo. The roster would kick-start the careers of both Naded and Legit, showing the world how talented both of these players were.

Unfortunately for the talented young pair, by 2006 there were already three established Goliaths in the halo scene and despite the incredible skill Naded and Legit possessed, Storm Ventures was still a David. The team hovered around the lower half of the top eight, consistently placing 5th through 7th with only two tournaments breaking this trend.

After a particularly poor showing in Anaheim in 2006,  Storm Ventures bounced back with a vengeance in Chicago. They faced off against Carbon, the second best team at the time, and knocked them into the Loser Bracket early on in the tournament. This came as a shock, but they would prove it was not a fluke defeating them a second time in the Loser Bracket Final.

This upset saw Naded advance to his first tournament finals where he would face Final Boss, the undisputed kings of the circuit. While Storm Ventures ultimately fell short at the final hurdle, taking the series to 10 games was enough to turn heads and prove their team were the real deal. The world now knew who Naded was.

By 2007 Naded and Legit were regarded as two of the best young talents in the game. It wasn’t long before one of the big guns came knocking. The duo’s performances attracted the attention of Str8 Rippin’, one third of Halo’s big three at the time, who snapped up Naded and Legit in an effort to improve their own results. The team only attended one event together, however, and broke up after a disappointing fifth place finish.

Naded remained with Legit and formed Perfect Storm for the next two events. A promising 3rd place finish at their debut event was followed up by 6th at their second event together, prompting Naded to depart. He would join The Agency for the remainder of the year, consistently finishing between third and fifth.

By this point it was clear that Naded was a top caliber player, but consistently failed to find a team that was capable of reaching a second finals in Halo 2. Carbon and Final Boss proved to be opponents too formidable for him to dismantle, and was never able to join them.

–

Halo 3

carbon

2008 was a rough year for Naded. After struggling to adapt to Halo 3, he hovered around 8th place for the majority of the year. That was until the National Championships, where Naded once again rose to the upper echelons of competition.

Attending with Carbon and two of its most prolific ever members, Chris ‘Shockwav3’ Smith and Eric ‘Gh057ayame‘ Hewitt, the team made an unexpected run through the tournament before finally being eliminated in the Loser Bracket Final and placing third. Naded was once again a name to be feared in competition; he had adapted to Halo 3.

The start of 2009 saw Naded crash back down to Earth though. A top 8 placement at the season opener was a cue for Naded to think outside the box for his team selection.

He joined forces with former Carbon star, Ben ‘Karma’ Jackson, to run open tryouts for the final two spots on their team for the next event. Unfortunately, the veteran duo were unable to inspire their new recruits and the quartet failed to qualify for the professional bracket, finishing top 40. The experiment was referred to in the community as ‘Naded’s Golden Ticket,’ and remains a part of Halo folklore to this day.

Not to be deterred by his failed experiment, Naded was quick to bounce back. He rejoined Carbon with his old teammate Shockwav3 and this time acquired the services of Halo legend Dave ‘Walshy’ Walsh, of Final Boss fame.

Carbon would go on one of the most consistent runs of Naded’s career, including 2nd place at MLG Dallas 2009 and top three finishes at both Anaheim and the National Championship in Orlando. It finally appeared Naded was where he was supposed to be – consistently fighting for top spots.

The success was short lived, though, and Halo 3 was punctuated with an inability to maintain his success. Naded would only finish inside the top 8 once all year and missed the National Championship for the first time in his career.  One year after his Carbon glory and Naded’s career looked to be on the decline.

–

The Dark Ages – Halo Reach and Halo Four

C6I0aSGUoAAhYNX

Naded would have to wait 2 long years, until the middle of 2011, before he found himself in the finals of a major tournament again. With his old comrade Legit by his side, Naded linked up with Halo legend TSquared for a second stint on Str8 Rippin’.

The team attended MLG Columbus 2011 and despite an impressive run, were taken down decisively by Instinct in the Grand Final. The defeat would mark Naded’s only trip to a final and one of only two times he would even make the top 8 throughout all of Halo Reach .

Halo 4 was equally baron of honors and it wasn’t until the game’s curtain call that Naded was able to find any success. At AGL 8 Knoxville with Infamous, comprising of Goofy, Ryanoob and Lethul, Naded would reach yet another Grand Final. This time he fell short to a familiar face in the form of his ex-duo Legit, once again preventing him from claiming that major 4v4 LAN victory.

With that final failure, Naded closed the door on what was undoubtedly the toughest chapter in his history.

–

The Final Chapter: Halo 2 Anniversary and Halo 5

maxresdefault-202

The remastering of what many considered to be Naded’s best title provided him with a renewed hope that he could achieve the victory he so desperately sought. The very first Halo 2 Anniversary tournament saw him reunite with his old teammate Legit and again make the finals. This time they would pair up with Goofy and Austin ‘Mikwen’ McCleary, but again would leave without a tournament title, unable to emerge from the finals victorious.

The inaugural event proved to be Naded’s only opportunity to win a major tournament during Halo 2 Anniversary, failing to place any higher than fourth throughout the rest of the game.

With the launch of Halo 5 came yet another fresh start. This time Naded elected to join a team of younger Halo professionals to add a veteran presence to the Team Allegiance roster.  This proved to be an intelligent decision, helping him discover a level of consistency he had not seen since his days on Carbon in 2009. Allegiance finished in the top 3 in consecutive events heading into the 2016 Halo World Championship.

The Halo World Championship 2016 will no doubt go down as one of the highlights of Naded’s career. An outstanding performance, including defeats of Renegades and Elevate, set up a grand finale against eventual Champions Counter Logic Gaming.

Although the defeat again left Naded trophy-less, it did earn him and his team their biggest ever payday, netting them a collective $500,000 for their efforts.

Since then, Naded has struggled to repeat his early success. On numerous occasions there has been talk of retirement, with Naded’s success being limited to a lone top four finish since his 2nd place success.

A failure to place in the top eight at the latest HCS event in Daytona may have been the proverbial straw that broke the camel’s back, ending Naded’s stint as a professional Halo player.

–

Looking Back – Is This The End?

5805580173_984e37bb63_b

Despite never quite reaching the promise land, Naded will look back on his Halo career as one of incredible success. His longevity has seen him come close many times, over numerous iterations of Halo, across the course of many years.

He made the finals in at least one major tournament for each Halo title he competed in, including the finals of a World Championship. This demonstrates a level of consistency and success that very few players can rival. Almost certainly cementing Naded as one of the greatest players to play the game.

Throughout his decade long career, he was always regarded as an extremely talented individual, and at times one of the most skilled stars in the game.

A major title consistently eluded him, largely owing to the team nature of Halo and Naded’s inability to overcome his own mental blockage when the chips were down. This mental hurdle is common in competitive individuals at the highest levels, but unfortunately it was one he was seemingly never able to clear.

Many of Naded’s greatest achievements came with players who were considered below the game’s elite and never the best in the scene at the time. There was always a Final Boss, Instinct God Squad or OpTic Gaming to contend with that was able to dominate the competitive landscape and Naded simply never found himself on that team.

For all his success and near misses, there were many low points in Naded’s career also. His ability to bounce back was one of his strongest characteristics and owes to his incredible tenacity as a competitor.

Every time he was faced with such adversity, he pressed forward and was rewarded with new opportunities to return to the highest tier of play. Had he quit when things got tough, he would not have had the longevity to his career that makes him such a unique member of the competitive Halo landscape. He also wouldn’t be the icon that he is for the thousands of players who have also been playing competitive Halo for long periods of time.

This is what makes Naded so special in the Halo community; his determination to be the best, and relentless pursuit of that goal over an extraordinary amount of time. His passion was visible on stage and an undeniable part of what made him so easy to root for.

Thankfully for the community, Naded says this won’t really be goodbye.

–

“I’ll continue to do plenty of Halo streams/videos moving forward. My main focus for now will be to stream, upload videos, and do things like that to build my audience the best I can.”  ~ Naded

–

The move from professional gamer to content creator and streamer is a path we have seen many professional players take successfully in the past. Hopefully Naded can join their ranks and find continued success in the next chapter of his life. With his competitive career now behind him, he can easily be described as one of the all time great Halo players, and certainly the greatest to have never won a Major honor.
