OpTic Gaming’s sustained dominance make them the greatest team in the game and the Halo team most deserving of the award of Esport Team of the Year.

OpTic Gaming has been a dominant force in Halo 5 since the formation of their current roster. Led by captain Paul ‘Snakebite” Duarte and his duo partner Mathew ‘Royal 2’ Fiorante, the pair have continually proven themselves to be among scene’s very best individual talents.

Assisting them in their efforts is Bradley ‘Frosty’ Bergstrom, a relatively new but highly accomplished pro; and Tony ‘Lethul’ Campbell Jr, a former star of the dominant Evil Geniuses Halo 2 Anniversary Edition squad — together the roster has maintained a fiercely tight grip for the vast majority of the year.

That dominance is rarely seen in esports and is why OpTic Gaming should be considered for the Esports Industry Award’s Esports Team of the Year.

The year kicked off with a hard fought victory in St. Louis at UGC. A tightly contested Grand Final win over Team Liquid was enough to begin the year on winning ways after finishing as runners up at the last Major tournament of 2016.

Continued below.

Esports Teams of the Year

Splyce (Call of Duty)
OG (DOTA 2)
Advertisement


Next stop for OpTic Gaming was a trip to Las Vegas and again they went undefeated, but this in even more convincing fashion as they romping to victory to secured themselves another first place finish.

Back-to-back Major titles made OpTic Gaming the obvious favorites going into the 2017 Halo World Championships, and the team delivered on expectations and then some.

OpTic breezed through pool play and looked even more impressive in the Championship Bracket, en route to their third successive tournament victory of 2017. The Halo World Championship was OpTic’s most dominant of the year, with the team only dropping two maps over the entire competition — this was real superiority.





Advertisement
Since the World Championship OpTic Gaming has slowed down slightly. The next Major offline event was held in Daytona, Florida and although OpTic Gaming made the finals, they were ultimately defeated by their long running rivals Team EnVyus, putting a stop to their impressive streak of tournament victories.

OpTic’s opportunity for revenge would come around very quickly. The 2017 Summer HCS Pro League Season was just around the corner, and the team emerged with the top seed at the end of regular season play.

This set the stage for the offline playoffs at Dreamhack in Atlanta and the chance for OpTic Gaming to scoop their fourth Major title of the year.

OpTic again looked strong, easing through the tournament until they ran into a young and talented Splyce roster, suffering only their second defeat in 2017.

Continued below.

Rookies of the Year:

Gunless
MikeYeung
Punk
OpTic was able to quickly rebound, though, and swept Team EnVyUs in the Loser Bracket finals — getting the revenge they sought after their loss in Daytona. This set up a rematch again Splyce and a shot at taking home their fourth Major title win of the year. It wasn’t meant to be and OpTic were defeated 4-2.

Despite the recent hiccups, OpTic is still the only team with more than one event win this year and boast the accolade of reaching every single Major tournament Grand Final in 2017. OpTic are also the current World Champions, having secured victory at the largest offline event of the season.

It’s been one hell of a year so far and there’s still plenty more Halo to play. OpTic Gaming continue to build their legacy.
