The final day of regular season play for the 2017 HCS Summer Pro League is upon us. While the top and bottom of the rankings are solidified the middle slots are far from being decided.

–

Match 1 – OpTic Gaming Vs Team Liquid

Coming into today’s action off the back of a dominating performance against Splyce yesterday, OpTic Gaming looks as strong as ever. Despite how well Splyce has played throughout this entire season, OpTic made quick work of their nearest rivals and dismissed them with an efficient 3-0 sweep.

Liquid has also looked impressive since their roster move earlier in the season, and were able to edge out a close series against Evil Geniuses last night giving them some extra momentum. While a win here would be enormous for Liquid and guarantee them third place heading into the finals tournament, it is unlikely they will be able to secure the win they need.

For OpTic, there isn’t anything official on the line as they have first placed safely secured heading into tonight’s action. They have only dropped two maps over the course of their undefeated season so far, and so making a record run through the HCS may be something they strive to achieve. Expect the GreenWall to walk away victorious.

Prediction: OpTic Gaming 3-0

–

Match 2 -Evil Geniuses Vs Ronin Esports

The regular season has seen Evil Geniuses achieve a remarkable turnaround from their performance at the last major offline event. While they have only secured two wins over the course of the season, it was enough to secure them the final berth in the Championship Bracket for Dreamhack Atlanta. A win today could potentially lead to them getting an even better seed, giving them plenty to play for.

Ronin Esports has struggled for success this season in spite of their roster changes and as a result find themselves facing relegation. While at first glance a win would tie their record with Evil Geniuses, the tie breaker is decided by map win percentage and Ronin trails significantly in that department. As a result, the best they can hope for in this series is to gain some momentum and experience as a unit prior to Dreamhack, and play spoiler to Evil Geniuses’ plans. In the end though, expect Evil Geniuses to come out ahead.

Prediction: Evil Geniuses 3-1

–

Match 3 – Splyce Vs Luminosity Gaming

Splyce has played incredibly well this season and suffered their only loss yesterday evening in a very decisive manner. With the roster consisting of so many young players, the loss could potentially still have lingering mental affects in today’s series. Regardless, Splyce has so much talent and been playing so well this season it is hard to see them falling short today.

Luminosity Gaming would certainly like to take this win in order to give themselves a chance at third place. While OpTic created the road-map for how to dismantle Splyce, it is much easier said than done. The challenge for Luminosity today will be to replicate what only OpTic Gaming have manages so far. The key to success will be to start strong and build early momentum.

Splyce couldn’t haven taken yesterday’s loss lightly however, so expect the squad to be firing on all cylinders today. They won’t be easy to beat.

Prediction: Splyce 3-1

–

Match 4 – Team EnVyUs Vs Str8 Rippin

Although the season hasn’t gone quite as well as Team EnVyUs would have hoped for, a win today could still give them the third seed in Atlanta. This gives the match quite a bit of importance for nV, and their 3-0 rout of Ronin Esports yesterday will ensure the team is full of confidence.

For Str8 Rippin the season could not have gone worse. The team has failed to win a single series all season, made roster changes and still only sit with four total map victories. Str8 will simply need to take this match as a practice session through which they can better prepare for Atlanta. This series is likely to be very one sided.

Prediction: Team EnVyUs 3-0

–

You can catch all the action live today over at twitch.tv/halo or beam.pro/halo starting at 7:30PM EST/ 4:30PM PST.
