As the season winds down, players are looking for any advantage they can get over the competition. Scene from the 2013 World Championship in Los Angeles.

With the 2014 World Championship fast approaching, and the end of the season with it, professional and casual gamers alike are looking for ways to improve their game for the last push of the year. With so much focus on improving, players from around the world are spending countless hours inside the game perfecting their skills. However, League is a very complex game that has outcomes determined by more than simple mechanical execution. Strategy plays a large role in the success of any team or player, and the creation and execution of a successful strategy requires talents outside of manipulating a character on a screen.

Many factors can manifest themselves in the outcome of the game that have little to do with the game itself. General health and wellness, mental discipline and having a purpose for practice can all greatly affect how well one can perform inside the game. Sports psychologist Robert Yip[i], who was also recently on the Richard Lewis Podcast, was kind enough to discuss how players can improve their game on the rift by working off the rift. After speaking with him it was possible to come up with some suggestions for improving game play in League of Legends, or any other competitive endeavor.

The full audio interview with him, in which he discusses a wide variety of topics, can be found here.

Hierarchy of Needs – Physical Come First

Many are familiar with Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, the principle that humans need to take care of safety and food before they begin to care about having friends who love them or setting a goal in life. A similar pyramid could be constructed of coaching needs, again where physical needs must be met first; competitors are no exception to the rule. Pro athletes often heavily monitor their diet, sleep and overall physical fitness in order to ensure they perform at their highest levels, but that currently isn’t the case for professional gamers.

“You want to focus on one thing at a time. If you had a team where they were completely on top of exercising and diet and schedule with routine and consistency then you would look into what you can do to make these guys better. What can you do to get that next 1 or 2 percent increase in performance? Because you would have tapped, what I would call, the lower base of coaching needs”

Ensuring someone is getting adequate exercise, sleeping well and eating properly are the first steps that a performance coach or sports psychologist would look to address, as they can begin to affect the player in other areas. All of these components have been linked to reducing stress, and improving cognitive function. This allows for better use of time in game, increasing the benefits from practice.

Unfortunately, the nature of eSports is that it tends to lead to a very sedentary lifestyle, but that also makes some of these improvements easy to make, and they could lead to large increases in a player’s ability. Players looking to make some improvements can make ones such as beginning to swap their energy drinks for water, adding in a morning workout, and making sure they keep to a regular sleep schedule even on off days. More importantly, these are changes that can be made without spending any extra money. They could actually save money while improving, and that is a situation anyone could appreciate.

Mental Discipline and Emotional Control

“The Really good players don’t get overly excited, or won’t get overly down, they’re somewhere in the middle”

Once a player begins to take care of their physical condition, it becomes much easier to develop stronger mental discipline. As a player in a team game, there will be things that are outside of your control, which holds true whether you are playing alone or with a predetermined team. Being able to focus on their task at hand in spite of additional adversity is what allows players to differentiate themselves from other top talents.  Mistakes will always be made, great players will have the ability to recover from them under pressure.

“The best teams will start churning out small advantages the more the game goes on. As the minutes tick they gain a small advantage by doing something a little bit better or a little bit more efficiently. That’s where the difference lies. If you have two teams, and one is just a bit more mentally tough, so if you play a best of three and lose the first game the mentally tough team will be able to recap from it.”

In these stressful situations, it requires great discipline to focus on the task at hand, as opposed to focusing on the negative external element at play. That discipline is something that separates the good teams from the great teams; it’s the factor that can help you come out on top in a close five game series or recover after an early mistake. Exercising regularly and sleeping properly are vital contributions to someone’s ability to properly control their emotions; ensuring they don’t get too upset after a mistake, or too carried away after things begin going their way.

It isn’t an accident that many professional gamers are also above average at other games like poker and chess. The mental discipline professional gamers often possess is what allows them to make the correct choice objectively. They are able to remove emotions from the equation. It takes one skill to know what the correct decision is in any given situation, but being able to apply that in the heat of the moment requires a completely different skill. All the practice in the world won’t make a difference if emotions get the better of a player when the time for them to perform is upon them.

“Gamers, Chess or poker players all share an analytical side. That part of their brain is working overdrive and they realize from a young age this is where their potential lies. And you’ll see people go into poker for example because it suits the lifestyle they are in. This is where their field of play is, on the pc, the same type of analytical thinking comes to the front and its where they apply their trade.”

Practice Doesn’t Make Perfect – Perfect Practice Makes Perfect

Alabama Crimson Tide head football coach Nick Saban recently said “You don’t practice to get it right. You practice to do it so many times, you can’t get it wrong” and this is true, but only effective once other requirements are met. No longer are players losing from silly mistakes they know not to make, or from letting their emotions get the best of them, but because they are being outplayed. It is at this point that these mistakes can truly be identified, and practice can truly become efficient.

Once a flaw in game play has been discovered, focus needs to be placed on fixing and removing it, as opposed to simply ignoring it. Players will tend to shy away from aspects of the game in which they are weak, but confronting those weaknesses and working to improve them is one of the keys to vastly improving. Instead of playing entire games, players could benefit from breaking things down into simpler terms and focusing their practice accordingly.

Drills are simply the most effective method at improving at a game, it’s why every major sport has practices in which drills are done. The goal is to practice the individual aspects so much that they become second nature, and come habitually when the primary concern will be winning the game, no matter what situation the player is in. By doing this with many different aspects of the game it frees up a player’s mind to concentrate on the details of that individual game, and thus perform at a higher level.

As Destiny commented on an episode of unfiltered, it is difficult to find others to commit to this type of practice, mostly because many people would simply prefer to play the games as they are more fun. However if a player can find others who are like minded and committed to improving via drilling, they can see a much larger payoff for their time spent in game.

One at a Time – At the Same Time

Taking care of physical needs allow someone to better control over their emotions resulting in stronger mental discipline which will ultimately allow them to expose their true weaknesses in game. This then highlights the areas players can work on in order to improve their play. It is made much easier for players if they address their issues in this order, but the world isn’t quite so linear and this is where coaches can help. Players have to continue to play and practice on a daily basis, so these things must be done simultaneously to each other and in game practice.

Coaches can ensure they remain focused on the things they need to, as it is easy to be distracted or led astray without an objective voice for guidance. With everyone trying to perform at their absolute best at the end of the season every advantage, no matter how small, is worth going after. It could be the thing that makes a good player great.

“Even the best team would benefit from extra support staff. Maybe a 10 percent increase for a lower team would only be a 5 percent increase for a better team with the same person or same structure. But why not fight for that 5 percent?”

[i] Robert Yip (BA, MA, CSCS) is a practicing Sports Psychology Consultant as well as an accredited Strength and Conditioning coach. He has worked in gaming for almost two years. His articles focus on the parallels between gaming and mainstream sports with an emphasis on performance training.
