With the opening super week of the LCS now finished its time to take a look back at the action and see how things unfolded to kick off one of the most anticipated splits in LCS history. The tornado of roster swaps in North America along with the west’s questionable performance at all stars had the world watching and waiting to see how the region would shape up in what many anticipated would prove to be the most competitive it has ever been. Europe was highly anticipated for exactly the opposite reason however as the Fnatic’s poor all star showing coupled with Alex Ich departing Gambit had people wondering if Europe was going to enter its dark ages.

Europe
1. Alliance (3-1)
2. Millenium (3-1)
3. SK (3-1)
4. Fnatic (2-2)
5. Supa Hot Crew (2-2)
6. Gambit Gaming (1-3)
7. Copenhagen Wolves (1-3)
8. Roccat (1-3)
Game to rewatch: Alliance Vs. Fnatic

Watching Europe this week it was hard to figure out exactly what was going on. In typical European fashion teams that had good weeks found themselves struggling against teams that had a bad week making the standings hard to analyze at this point. With Gambit beating SK and the Wolves edging out Millenium it looks like any team can beat any other team, but the overall quality of the games seems to have deteriorated since last split.

Who’s Hot – Alliance and SK

Both these teams came out roaring to start the 2014 Summer split going 3-1. They were the teams to defeat Fnatic this week, often seen as the benchmark for success in Europe. Both teams had an off game this week but for the most part they both seemed to pick up right where they left off the last split as some of the premier teams on the European scene. Alliance was led by Froggen’s second best KDA in the league while Tabz had the highest GPM. SK achieved their results due to Nrated’s 4th highest KDA and Jesiz’s 4th highest GPM. Both teams have showed improving team play and look to contend for the European slots at worlds, which means no slowing down. The two go head to head in the first game of the day on Friday for what is sure to be an emotional match for LCS supremacy and is the upcoming weeks game to watch.

Who’s Got a Shot – Millenium and Fnatic
The biggest surprise in Europe this week was Millenium and their impressive 3-1 week. After finishing in last place last split they came in being considered one of the weaker teams and surprised the world by finishing the week tied for first place. They need to prove themselves further in the coming weeks however as their victories came against teams in the lower half of the league. Their games against Fnatic and Alliance this week prove to be a real test for how good the squad is and looks to give fans a true measurement of their skill and place in the league. Fnatic did not have the best of opening weeks but their history as the European champion cannot be dismissed. Their losses came to Alliance and SK putting them right below that top tier to start the split, however they have always been a team that rises and falls over the course of the season. Look for their games against Millenium and Gambit this week to demonstrate their strength within the league.

Who’s Not – Gambit And Roccat
Both of these teams lacked a lot to be desired in their first week of play putting up terrible 1-3 records. Gambit fans can take solace in the fact they played the three teams that had the best super week and managed to beat one of them, but their loss to Roccat was extremely worrying. The performance leads to questions about who will take over the Gambit mid lane permanently as “Niq” did not seem to fill the shoes left behind by former captain Alex Ich. Their game against Fnatic next week will be vital for them to win if they want to be regarded as a serious contender. Meanwhile Roccat looked just as troubled in their opening week despite not losing any of their starters in the off season. Their only win came against Gambit, who was evidently struggling during the week and they had terrible showings in the rest of their games. Made even worse is the fact they have yet to play Alliance or SK meaning the bad record can’t even be blamed on playing the best teams. Their game against SK this week will be a good indicator on their current strength in the league and what they need to do to catch up to the teams at the top.
Game to watch: Alliance Vs. SK

North America
1. LMQ (4-0)
2. Team Dignitas (3-1)
3. Team Solomid (3-1)
4. Cloud 9 (2-2)
5. Counter Logic Gaming (2-2)
6. Curse (1-3)
7. Complexity (1-3)
8. Evil Geniuses (0-4)
Game to rewatch: LMQ Vs. CLG

The North American LCS was heavily anticipated this split due to the insane number or roster changes previous to it starting. Many experts believed this would be the most competitive the region had ever been with LMQ entering the split, Dignitas and CLG strengthening their roster and TSM adding more European talent. In the opening games of the split the region definitely delivered with new teams rising to claim the region’s top spot to kick off the summer.

Who’s Hot – LMQ and Dignitas
Chinese LMQ burst onto the NA scene with a perfect super week, defeating one of the region’s best teams in CLG. Although their other games were against some of the weaker teams in the region the decisiveness with which they achieved their victories has made for an impressive introduction into the league. Their perfect start has many drawing parallels to the success that Cloud 9 achieved when they entered the league two splits ago. Dignitas is also looking incredibly strong to start the split as the addition of Shiptur and Zionspartan from Coast seem to have had a positive impact on the team. Despite their loss to Curse they had very strong performances in their other games. Although some of their issues around shot calling and decision making may still plague the tesam the raw injection of talent into their roster seems to be the catalyst they needed to turn them into a legitimate contender for one of the top spots in the region. Shiptur was a big part of the newfound Dignitas success finishing first in KDA and 5th in GPM while XiaoWeiXiao fulfilled a similar role for LMQ coming 5th in overall KDA and finishing first in GPM.
Who’s Got a Shot – CLG and TSM
Two of the biggest organizations in league of legends went through slight rebuilding phases over the course of the offseason. TSM had more roster changes than it has ever had at one time while CLG continued the revolving door of top laners. TSM had a good record to end the week but played the worst three teams in the league to acquire their win so it is still unclear how strong their new roster is. They did not look exceptional in their game against Cloud 9 so it will be interesting to see how TSM stacks up against CLG and Dignitas in their games this week. CLG had mixed results with their new Korean top laner but like TSM their victories came against teams that had a rough first week. Their game this week against TSM is the match to watch his week and looks to be a good indicator of their true strength. Their match should show us which of these teams has what it takes to fight for the top spot in the league.
Who’s Not – EG and C9
There isn’t much to say about EG this week. Despite their roster change designed to improve the bot lane strength EG had a terrible week going without a single victory. To be fair to them they did play the top four teams in the league but the nature of their defeats leaves fans of the team worried about their future. Their performances lacked a lot to be desired but there is hope they can do much better in the coming week against other struggling rosters in Complexity and Curse. The upcoming week should serve as a testament to just how much trouble this EG roster is in. C9 on the other hand finished the week at 2-2, a completely unexpected outcome for the back to back North American champion. They looked nothing like the dominating team we expect them to be in their matches against Dignitas and Complexity despite handily beating TSM and CLG. The results, while not terrible, are far from the form we expect of C9 and hopefully served as a wake-up call to the team and they will get themselves back in top form. It was the first time the team has ever lost back to back games in the LCS so this next week is critical to getting themselves back in form. Their matches against LMQ and Curse should give us a better understanding of exactly where this team is at in the standings.

Game to wach: TSM Vs. CLG
