Over the past two seasons the Western regions have been constantly compared to Korea; the internationally recognized eSports powerhouse in terms of player skill, infrastructure, and organisational prowess. It has become more than evident to those paying attention that the discrepancies in these areas are responsible for why Western regions fall so far behind Korea on the international stage, yet little attention has been paid to a comparison with China.

The largest region by far in terms of player base, the talent pool they have to draw from is enormous. While that has not allowed them to yet surpass Korea, it is the reason cited by most analysts for them surpassing the Western regions so quickly. Despite the evidence, many casual fans hold the misconception that the opposite is true and this stems from a general lack of knowledge on the Chinese scene.  Sitting down with Ryan Luwei, previously an eSports editor for Duowon – a popular Chinese LoL site – currently working with CGA, many comparisons could be drawn between the Western teams and China that help paint the picture of their rapid ascension over the West as the 2014 World Championship approaches. The full interview transcript discussing China, including things not contained in the article, can be found at the bottom of this page.

The Solo Queue Advantage
Many Western fans are familiar with the famous remarks by HotshotGG, suggesting solo queue in the Western regions was taken too lightly considering it is the training grounds for pro players and is supposed to represent a path for amateur players to go pro. Korea is often credited for having a difficult solo queue ladder that players take seriously, evidenced by the fact that challenger players are routinely picked up by professional teams and given a chance to perform at the highest level of competition. It turns out China has a very similar solo queue environment to Korea in this regard, and it could be listed as one of the reasons for the rapid advancement of the Chinese scene.

In Western regions, it is very difficult to get picked up as a challenger-tier player without first joining a challenger team and proving an ability to perform well on LAN and in the competitive scene. This limits the incentive for talented players to get to challenger, as there is no assurance that doing so will net them a chance to play on the highest level. Even more importantly, pros playing in solo queue can often get away with not playing their best, or doing unorthodox things in game, simply because the other players aren’t taking it seriously.

The intensity of the competition in Eastern Regions Solo Queue ladders provides them with an advantage over the west.
The intensity of the competition in Eastern Regions Solo Queue ladders provides them with an advantage over the west.

China have created an advantage for themselves with their Ionia server over the West. Players who reach high diamond 1 or challenger on that server are looked into by professional teams looking to acquire new talent. This offers their large player base a structured goal to achieve on their way to becoming a professional, and offers their current top players an excellent environment to practice and refine their skills outside of their team’s scrimmages. This has helped facilitate their already highly talented player base into one that has produced some of the world’s best players. By giving their player base this clear path to success, and establishing a strong practice forum for players already considered elite, the entire Chinese scene has been improving on its own through the competition its players offer each other.

While this is certainly not their only reason for success, it definitely helps that the largest player base in the world has a highly competitive environment in which to breed the talent that exists in the region. The competition and the pressure that comes from it doesn’t seem to exist for established Western players, and could be a factor in the gap in mechanical skill between Western regions and China.

The Power Dynamic
One of the other main reasons cited for Korea being superior to the West is the power structure in place in the region, and again it turns out China more closely replicates the Korean model. In Korea, the teams have all of the power. Players are seen as interchangeable, no matter how talented, thus forcing players to continuously prove their worth to the organization paying them. The West, although now slowly shifting, has for a long time held the opposite mentality where the players are important and sponsors come and go. This is starting to change, with players stepping down to manage their teams, such as Reginald of TSM and HotshotGG of CLG. However, some teams like Millennium still find the players own the spot in the LCS, not the team. This situation gives the players more control over their destiny, but breeds complacency amongst those who are already well-established; they have little to no fear of being forcibly removed from their teams. Although he did end up being removed, Chaox partying hard the night before a tournament is an excellent example of this.

Chaox is one of the few big name players to ever be removed from a Western team due to issues outside of the game.
Chaox is one of the few big name players to ever be removed from a Western team due to issues outside of the game.

Although some would like to say that type of behaviour is far in the past, just last year the Lemondogs were hung over for the European Finals and Fnatic put up a very poor performance at All Stars at the end of last split. This type of behaviour is only possible when players have an important vote in team decisions, organizations in Korea would not allow that lack of dedication, nor would Chinese teams. The incredibly large player base in China assures the organizations that there will always be new young talent to choose from, which significantly lowers the value of an individual player. Although the sponsors are not quite as large as the ones in Korea, the teams are still serious enough about their results to demand certain behaviours from their players, and no exceptions are made. This again puts pressure on players in China to perform at their absolute best at all times, as replacements for them are plentiful.

Although Western teams also have behaviours they expect of their players, the lack of replacements available in the region allow players more leeway than those in Eastern regions as teams are hesitant to replace someone integral to their success with someone unproven. Even though TSM did just that replacing Xpecial with Gleeb this season, it proved to be a poor decision that had to be remedied by bringing in a veteran from Korea in Lustboy instead. In China, the large player base means that skill alone is unlikely to separate someone from the pack, so players must focus on contributing to a positive team environment as well as synergizing well in-game with their teammates to ensure they are not a prime candidate for replacement. Western regions do not yet have this luxury; remedying the solo queue situation in the West could help to alleviate that, but until that process is complete it will be difficult for the West to replicate the power structure in the Eastern regions that provide this additional motivation for players.

If you Can’t Beat Them, Join Them
If one thing that has become clear recently it has been the strength of the Korean scene, and both the Western and Chinese scenes have taken note. The Korean teams are modelled in many ways after traditional professional sports teams. They have large coaching staffs that specialize in different areas that all contribute to the success of the team, and they hold the responsibility for the performance of the team. Their system for taking players out of solo queue has allowed for them to have a strong professional league (OGN) as well as a competitive series beneath it (NLB) that feeds strong players to the top teams. By perfecting the machine that produces these players and then offering them a strong support staff and everything they need to succeed, Korea has established itself as the premier nation in the world for eSports.

China has great respect for Korean League of Legends and is demonstrating this by trying their best to reproduce Korean infrastructure in China. Chinese organizations are looking to build sister teams like they have in Korea for themselves, as scrims between different organizations tend to be reserved so as not to display too much to potential opponents.  China seems to admire the systems that Korea has implemented, and to learn how to do it themselves they have begun to import both Korean coaches and players in order to help them speed up the process. While this obviously creates potential problems due to differences in language in the short run, the benefits the organizations can learn from how Koreans operate by bringing in people with that experience is invaluable in the long run. It is the necessary step for China to make its final stride in catching up to the Korean teams, and a necessary one for leveling the playing field in the long run. Although it likely won’t manifest itself at this year’s World Championship, China is taking all of the right steps to begin to contest Korea for the strongest region in the world.

Star Horn Royal Club is quickly trying to become more like Korean teams, going as far as bringing in two Korean players to play on their squad.
Star Horn Royal Club is quickly trying to become more like Korean teams, going as far as bringing in two Korean players to play on their squad.

The West is also trying to adapt some of these changes, but not seriously enough. Solo queue is the sole domain of professional players, the players must take it upon themselves to become more serious about competition even on the ranked ladder. Also, sister teams happen to still be illegal in North America and Europe. It is a poor decision by Riot that hampers the potential of Western regions and it will be crucial for this to change moving forward to elevate the level of play in the West.  Furthermore, although Western teams are starting to invest in coaches, there is a lack of major sponsors with sufficient funding to bankroll an entire coaching staff, so many teams only have one or two pieces of the puzzle. As eSports grows in popularity in the West, this will hopefully no longer be the case. As big companies are already dipping their toe in the water to see if it is lucrative for them, such as Coke sponsoring the Challenger series. Until these changes are made in the West they will always be a step behind, as the talent isn’t being nurtured and maximized in the way it is in Eastern regions.

China is Second Fiddle
As we head into the World Championship most analysts will say China plays second fiddle to Korea, with the West behind them.  The reasons cited for this have always been the depth of the Chinese player base, but upon examination it became clear that there was more than that at play. A more competitive environment that is highly structured and professionalised also seems to be a large contributing factor to the rise of China over North America and Europe, and because of this the West must focus on these elements if they hope to catch up.  There is no doubt that talent exists everywhere, it is simply a matter of nurturing and maximizing talent to get the most out of each player. Korea is exceptional at that, China is quickly getting very good, and until the West learns how to do the same, it will always be a little bit behind.

Going into the World Championship the hopes for Western Teams are high, but expectations are rather low. If a team from the West convincingly places themselves in the top four it would be an incredible feat and highly impressive, it would be an underdog story like that two years ago of the Taipei Assassins. As the world looks to emulate the success obtained by Korea both China and Western regions are looking to model themselves more similarly to them, and if they can successfully do so there may very well be an even international playing field once again, and that would certainly make international events like this one even more exciting.

Interview Transcript
Tell us a bit about yourself. What is your background in esports? What is your experience with each scene (Western and Chinese) and how did you get involved?

My name is Ryan and I used to be a teacher, which is my major in university. But that is not what I want to do. I wanted to be a sports journalist since I was in primary school.

One day I saw an recruitment ad on lol.duowan.com, which is the most popular LOL site in China, and I decided to give a shot at applying as the eSports editor. I prepared so hard for the interview, which made it the best interview of my life, so I got the job at Duowan.

In 2013 May, I got a chance to go to Shanghai Allstars. There I got to meet Travis, DoubleLift, and Nick Allen. From then on, I kept in touch with Travis and tried to write some English articles about the Chinese scene. Then, I met Kesley Moser and Michale ‘DreXxiN’ Lalor from GosuGamers and Nilu Kulasingham from onGamers. Now I am trying to provide some content from Chinese scene to Western scene as often as I can.

After quitting Duowan, I joined CGA, a brand new site which is located in Shanghai, the eSports center of China. I have more chances to follow the LPL and pro teams which brings me to where I am now.

China is seen as a region with great mechanical skill, but many think it falls behind the Western regions in strategy. Is that valid? Explain.

I don’t think it is true that Chinese teams fall behind Western regions in strategy, but I quite agree that Chinese players have great mechanics because most of them are so talented.

About the strategy, I think different regions have different styles. I talk to many pros who will go to worlds representing LPL. They think the LCS games are all about farming and the late game team-fights will determine the results. They don’t think they will give chances to the LCS teams to farm so hard when they meet on the world stage.

How is eSports viewed in China? How popular is it and how accepted is it by the older generation?

Although the eSports environment is getting better and better in China, the industry is still under prejudice.

The figure for eSports fans is growing rapidly now, and the interesting thing is now the 80’s generation, which grew up by playing some video games, are becoming parents so I think they understand eSports pretty well. But to that older generation, they still think gaming is harmful and is not a real sport.

What are the rules like around eSports in China (ownership of teams, player age etc.)? There are many rumors the scene is “shady”, is this true or exaggerated?

Frankly speaking, most of pro teams in China belong to some investor which is just like sports. They have enough money so they do have to make it from eSports, which is an unhealthy situation/mode.

But things are getting better and LPL teams are starting to make money this year as far as I know.

And the player age is kind of a funny thing because in the traditional sports sense, they like to change the athlete’s age to get better results in particular a group (like under 16 group; under 18 group, etc. I hope you understand what I mean).

But in eSports, I don’t think they have to do this kind of thing.

How do players view eSports in China? Are they satisfied being a pro? Tabe retired so he would be allowed to create content as it is more lucrative. Is this common? Is there any sort of path for these players to follow after retirement?

This question is complicated. I think most of them are satisfied being a pro. Besides creating content and selling products on online stores, pros like to sign some streaming platform in China(CaoMei, WeiXiao, and PDD signed with ZhanqiTV) and they can get a lot of money according to the contract.

About the path, they can become commentators, video-guide makers, streamers, and even coaches.

How does the system work? How does a player go from being good at the game to joining a top LPL squad? (Farm teams? Lower league? Straight out of solo queue?)

They just simply get to Ionia server D1 or Challenger. And then some pro teams will invite them to be a pro player if they want.

Then they will go to the gaming house and keep practicing. If one day they get a chance to play in LPL, they will grow much faster. If you work hard enough, you’re going to become a star!

What are the dynamics of Chinese teams? Do they believe in the structure that exists in Korea that the West is building or do they have a different way of organization and operation for their teams?

I think Chinese teams pretty much admire what Korean do. That’s why some LPL teams hire Korean players or coaches.

What is the view of Western regions in China? The West puts Korea on a pedestal but seems to believe China is equal to them or below them despite results saying otherwise. What is the Chinese view on the Western teams? Are any Western teams well respected in China?

In season 2, M5, CLG.EU, and TSM had so many fans in China. However, these Chinese fans are giving less attention to Western teams since IPL 5. They still think Chinese teams are much much stronger than the Western ones.

What is the rationale behind importing Koreans to play in China? Aren’t language barriers an issue, especially with the raw talent in China? Why is this so common at the moment? Wouldn’t a Korean coach be more along the lines of what a Chinese team needs? Do they need anything from Korea or could they recreate the Korean system with wholly chinese parts?

Chinese teams really want to learn from Koreans so they hire players or coaches, especially for the discipline. But I quite agree with you that the language barrier is a big problem. Even now, Uzi told me he seldom talks to Insec in during matches. Two reasons: 1) He is so focused; 2) It’s really hard to express what he really want to say due to the language problem.

The best way for Korean coaches to adapt to Chinese teams is to create a new system which is suitable for a Chinese-Korean mixed team.

What do scrims look like for Chinese teams? Do they play games out no matter what like in Korea, or do they just leave games that go poorly at the start similar to Western scrims?

To be honest, I don’t think the scrim quality is that good between two LPL teams because they will hide something in the scrims.

The best scrims are found between LPL and LSPL teams or sister teams playing each other. That is what EDG manager told me.

What’s more, if you want to scrim with Korean teams, you have to establish a secondary team like the Koreans have in place.

How is solo queue treated in China? Is it seen as a legitimate opportunity to be noticed and taken seriously, or is it a joke similar to what top level solo queue looks like in the West?

I think Chinese solo queue is taken more seriously than in the West (at least the top level of solo queue).

With so much raw talent in the region, do players feel enormous pressure to perform? Is it used as a threat of replacement? If so, has this taken its toll on any players from China that could have been better without the extra pressure?

In my point of view, I think most Chinese pro’s mechanics are very even. The differences are whether a player can really fit the team’s style and if he can be a team player.

Of course the top level pros in china are under heavy pressure, but that is what you have to overcome in China.

In Korea, the teams or organisations hold the power, but in the West it seems it is often the opposite and the players hold the power. What is the power structure like in China?

[laughs] That’s true. I think in China it’s somewhere between Korea and the West.

Any final thoughts or comparisons you wanted to point out between the regions? Anything that stands out to you that I missed?

I will predict that in season 5, every region in the world will much closer in comparison than how it is now. That is what I want to say.

Shoutouts? Thanks?

Thanks for the interview. I interview many people in the Chinese scene but no one interviews me, [laughs] so I am really surprised.

Also, I will be attending worlds on September 17th and hope I can bring some Chinese content to twitter considering I will be very busy. If you are interested in Chinese content, you can follow me on my twitter:

https://twitter.com/RyanRyanluwei

Images courtesy of Riot Games
