The LCS has just completed its trip to London, to hold the games at Wembley Arena instead of the usual location of the Riot Studio in Cologne. In many ways the event was a great success and is exactly what Riot should be doing, bringing live action to fans in different cities around the world while giving their players the chance to experience different locations. There was however, one glaring oversight of this event which left a black mark on what was otherwise a successful show, some of the players themselves could not attend. Due to a lack of visas, numerous players who should have been competing this weekend were prevented from doing so. This has caused a lot of controversy over where the blame is to fall and discussion on what can be done to avoid situations like this in the future.

First for the facts. It was made clear before the event took place that 4 of 5 gambit members, as well as Alex Ich of NiP would not be able to attend the event due to visa issues. Gambit went ahead and publicly placed the blame for this at the feet of Riot, NiP simply linked their article to the Gambit statement. This obviously created lots of controversy as Gambit is one of the fan favourite organizations in the LCS and Alex Ich is the globally-renowned star of the NiP challenger roster. This affected the quality of the event both within Summoners Rift, as Gambit and NiP were forced to use substitutes to fill in their rosters, and off the Rift as UK fans as well as others who made it to the event were deprived of the opportunity to watch some of their favourite players.  Going forward it is important to look at this type of event and thoroughly discuss what we like and expect from similar ones in the future.

Gambit Logo
Gambit Gaming was forced to compete at this weekend’s LCS in London’s Wembley Arena with 4 Substitute players leaving only “NiQ” from their current roster.

We can start with the teams and players themselves. As professionals, they are supposed to show up and act responsibly at all competitions in which they participate. They are treated similarly to how many professional sports leagues treat the players, where they themselves have a great deal of responsibility in their actions. That being said, travelling internationally does pose a lot of logistical concerns and requires pre-planning, something that can only be done with information. It is not fair to expect LCS teams and players to be ready to travel anywhere in the world on a moment’s notice, however it is also not fair of them to not show up or make the effort to travel when they know where they are supposed to be. The requirement for visas when travelling abroad is an enormous amount of paperwork that must be completely properly and requires a proper time allotment for doing so. Therefore, it is critical that any such event is planned far enough in advance that gives the teams and players more than adequate time to complete the process. Look at how Brokenshard has had his return to the North American LCS stopped by complications with his visa despite completing all processes requested in a timely manner. Travelling abroad is a complicated manner and it is of paramount importance that those involved are given ample opportunity to complete the processes necessary for their participation.

brokenshard
Brokenshard is unable to return to play in the North American LCS due to Visa complications likely preventing him from returning until week 9 of the 11 week split

Now let us look at the event itself and the purpose it is supposed to serve.

First I think most people would agree that a road show, or travelling LCS, is definitely a positive. It exposes fans who cannot go to view the games live normally a chance to do so; it allows for fans around the world to interact in person with their favourite players, it helps bring fans of the game together in cities where the LCS sets up and ultimately strengthens the player base and the community as a whole. Events like the one at Wembley Arena this past weekend should be encouraged and replicated as much as possible, to give as many people as possible the opportunity to attend the LCS in person and meet their idols. There are two entirely separate concerns here however, the integrity of the LCS itself and the fan experience.

First we will start off with the integrity of the league. While the LCS making appearances in multiple cities is excellent for publicity and gets more fans to be engaged first hand it is important that the games being played are still meaningful. For one, a small percentage of the people who watch the LCS will actually be in attendance at any given event, this means that it is crucial for the games to uphold the same quality as those at the normal studios for the thousands of fans who watch the games online. Secondly the LCS is now an official league, it needs to strive to conduct itself in a way that the NHL, NFL or MLB would. Note that these leagues do special events but ensure the game is of the same quality and standards that a standard season game would be (NHL outdoor game or the NFL over seas). This makes the event simply a bonus with nothing lost at its expense, and is exactly what the LCS should be aiming for with its road shows.

The teams themselves have a stake in this as well, scenarios like the one this weekend have the potential to seriously affect the standings. It can be stated without argument that NiP would have performed better with Alex Ich in the top-lane. They may have still lost the series but the games would ultimately have been more competitive, or failure could be placed solely on the NiP players for not performing instead of factors outside their control. We want competitions to be definitive; A beat B therefore A is better, we want to limit the number of reasons for A beating B outside of A being the superior team.  Gambit meanwhile managed to drag both their games out with 4 of 5 members being subs, one might then imagine that their main roster could have pulled out a win in one of those two games if not both of them. This means Fnatic and Roccat have been given a win on their records against a team that honestly, was not a member of the LCS. This is unfair to Gambit, as they have two losses on their record that are not representative and unfair to the teams who did not play Gambit this week, as they do not get the “free wins” from playing against a group of Challenger players. It actually is unfair to everyone as the teams that played against Gambit now have “inflated” records and the value of these wins will certainly be discussed and questioned in every head to head between them and Gambit for the rest of the split.

Ultimately, having players miss events like this is a worst case scenario for every person involved, no matter what their desired outcome of the games are. Christopher “MonteCristo” Mykles commented, rightfully so in my opinion, on the situation publicly saying he feared for the integrity of the competition the LCS is trying to promote. It is great that Riot is trying to promote the LCS by bringing it abroad, but it is important they don’t forget what it is the LCS really is in the process of doing so.

The second main point I want to cover is the fan experience. It is no secret a large reason for doing this is to allow more fans to attend the LCS live, interact with their favourite players in person, and experience what it is to be at one of these events. All of these things are great for the community and Riot should be applauded for their efforts in bringing these live events to more and more people each year, it is not an easy task and definitely isn’t required of them. That being said the effort goes to waste if fans can’t watch and meet their favourite players because they are not there. It undermines all of the hard work necessary to orchestrate an event like this if some of the stars can’t show up and it should never be the acceptable outcome. A huge part of what makes these events successful is how great many of the professional players and personalities are at interacting with the fans. If a player is not able to attend the event, they cannot interact with their fans and even run the risk of alienating people who wanted to meet them and are not fully informed of the situation (maybe X doesn’t want to do autographs when in reality X wasn’t even able to attend the event).

So where does this leave us? Organizing events internationally? Good. Players can’t make it or compete in these events who are supposed to? Bad.

There are no easy answer as to what Riot should have done this past weekend, although I think most would agree their course of action leaves a lot of foresight to be desired. Forcing Gambit to participate while fielding a team that was far removed from their original roster was not a great decision, but many of the alternatives available were also far from ideal. They could have used the times for show matches or friendly all-star type games while letting Gambit play double the games the next week, or simply made some schedule changes once it was clear Gambit would not be able to attend, clearly both of those scenarios also pose their own list of pros and cons.  The LCS is supposed to represent the highest level of competition in League of Legends, forcing one of the teams to compete without some of its players would seem to go against that purpose. Going forward the best interests of the LCS should always be the number one concern in making these decisions, and the integrity of the competition it promotes is of utmost importance to those interests. By holding that priority above all else, a great competitive event will follow and the fans will be content, getting to meet all their favourite players at that point will simply be a bonus. In the meantime, it might be prudent for future Road Show LCS broadcasts to take place where players already have access to compete to prevent hiccups like this one from recurring.

What do you think Riot should have done about the Gambit Situation at Wembley this weekend? Was forcing them to use a substitute roster the lesser of several evils?
