With the explosion in the popularity of eSports in recent years, the coverage of the scene has grown in tandem. As this growth in coverage continues alongside the growth in the industry we need to consider the relationship between and roles played by eSports organizations and the press. The relationship being in good standing between the people covering eSports (the press) and people inside the industry (the organizations) is critical for the continued growth and success of eSports. The fans are so passionate because of the huge amount of content available to them, provided by both the personalities themselves in form of streams and video diaries whilst the eSports press that gives fans insider stories on roster swaps, interviews and general speculation. If either of these avenues of content disappear then we end up with less content to engage the fans which is an outcome nobody in eSports wants to see.

So what are the responsibilities of both sides? What is expected of them? These are some things we need to define so that we can make the relationship work for the sake of the fans and the people involved.

Let’s start with content creators. What is the role of someone who creates content for eSports? In a nutshell it is to create interesting, engaging and relevant content and provide it to the fans of the people involved. This coverage can come in a wide variety of ways, people can do game analysis breaking down statistics, they can interview players and air their subsequent opinions, they can comment with their own opinions on news and more. Their primary responsibility lies in the creation of their content, it is their job. The content they create is supposed to reflect the reality of the situation, positive or negative their job is express true fact and situational, educated opinions to the public. It is here in this responsibility to find the true story and tell the fans about it that the problems lie, we see these problems become evident when comparing this responsibility with that of the eSports organizations.

So what is the primary responsibility of an organization involved in eSports, be it Riot or a team? To further promote and solidify the position of the organizations. In other words the organization’s primary responsibility is to its own health. Teams express this goal by winning and being relevant in the scene they reside within, creating fans to absorb the content they produce. Of course this makes it easy to see where the conflict lies between the reporters/content creators and the eSports organizations, they have different primary responsibilities.

Websites that cover eSports want to run publish every piece of information made available to them. The nature of eSports means we have no “sensitive” information – nobody will die due to an article written that exposes shady dealings, a national government won’t fall apart because of an article detailing an unannounced player transaction. This means content creators don’t have the moral dilemma, political or otherwise when looking at the impact of the information should it be published. Teams on the other hand have a very different opinion as they only want information released that benefits them, and in a way that benefits them. This is a source of many of the conflicts that we experience in our industry.

Let’s look at a few recent examples as a way to demonstrate this conflict of priorities occurring in real time. First in line was the issue with “Slasher” and EG when he announced before the organization, that CLG.EU would be joining their brand. Now, the community often likens eSports to regular sports or strives to one day have that acceptance. The problem is when things start mimicking the sports world people in eSports freak out. Alex Garfield of EG routinely lambasted  Rod “Slasher” Breslau for revealing facts. Many times a trade or signing is heavily hinted at or revealed by content creators sources before the organization itself in real sports, but that has never been seen as a detraction. If anything it creates more speculation (is it true, was the source correct, who was the source etc.) and even more publicity for the organization, although it might not all be centred on the subject matter they desire. The fact is that a reporter who has access to facts will report them, regardless of how the organization feels. Obviously there are things that do not need to be reported on, but it is both naive and arrogant to think that only the organization involved has the right to make the announcement. If a company does not want something announced they should make sure it doesn’t get leaked, simple as that. We cannot have content creators and reporters fearing to release factual information given to them on record because of potential blacklisting, especially when the information is factual in nature.

The other two divisive examples from recent memory that pop up both stem from the popular show Summoning Insight. The show is notorious for not pulling any punches and the people on it being completely honest, they may be incorrect but there is little doubt what is said on that show is what the hosts and guests really believe. Duncan “Thooorin” Shields and Christoper “MonteCristo” Mykles, hosts of the show, have been attacked numerous times for their willingness to discuss almost any subject in an honest manner. Some may not agree with how they conduct themselves, they may go too far in some situations, but the fact is that they are attempting to promote open and honest dialogue on the subjects the discuss.

The first incident was sparked from comments made about the appearance of players on Team Dignitas. Michael “Odee” O’Dell, the Managing Director for Team Dignitas, responded in the chat with negative comments and threatened to blacklist anyone who attempted to silence him from interviews with the Dignitas organization. After this outburst, none of the premier eSports news websites would touch the subject matter, knowing they risked the wrath of the influential Odee if they ran with the story. Since the incident he has been rightly fined and has since apologized for his behaviour, which is actually very important for eSports as it demonstrates that abusive behaviour will not be tolerated.

The second involves Andy “Reginald” Dinh who recently blacklisted OnGamers and their reporters from creating content with TSM staff and players because of the issue he had with the way Summoning Insight is run. These two examples show the an insight into the dedication and power organizations have when trying to silence those who do not agree with them.

Clearly this difference of views is not helpful as it inhibits access to information for content creators and fans and inhibits press coverage for the organizations. The press helps gives the organizations more coverage and promotion while the organizations give the press something to talk about, so they can generate views. The harmony of this relationship is critical for the well being of the industry and for providing content to fans. Its worrying that Reginald does not see things this way, taking a quote from his video diary, he says about OnGamers

“All of our content is free for them. We specifically go out of our way to work with them and give them interviews. Even when we are at tournaments, even when we have something to do, we make time to give them free interviews where they make money off of us and why should I provide them with my time when only negative things come out of it?”

Like I mentioned above I think Reginald, despite all of his success, is missing a key point here to his business. The press is a two way street, not always will coverage be rosy but any news is good news, it has people discussing your organization. TSM has been very fortunate to have one of the most popular teams in the world for years now, but that may not always be the case and he may find TSM needs them on their side. He doesn’t mention that OnGamers, and outlets like them, provide TSM coverage for free as well. TSM does not pay for video production, the salaries of the people covering and writing the stories, these people get paid independently and often help teams garner much deserved positive attention. Of course some things will be negative, the nature of news it is not always positive, but to say that all OnGamers content is negative towards them is rather irresponsible. Travis, a reporter now part of Ongamers, has his interviews as a staple of content in the League of Legends community, as he gets a fun and less serious side of the players personality. To say none of his interviews published on OnGamers with TSM members was positive is just incorrect.

Reginald continues;

“When I first started working with Travis he was really small time and I allowed him to put his content on our website and he got more and more popular and famous. Not through us, but because he was consistent about it and we have a really good relationship with him. That’s why we work with him. Not because of OnGamers, or not because we get paid, because we don’t, but because Travis has built a good relationship between TSM and him, and I have decided to end that relationship because when I told him I didn’t want to work with Ongamers any more, he told them to make a big deal out of this.”

Again here he cities the reason for not working with Travis was apparently because of Travis’ reaction to being told he would no longer be working with TSM. Never mind the fact that the apparent reason occurred after the decision. His main point seems to again be that TSM receives nothing in return for the press coverage provided other than negative attention. It seems to be his opinion that TSM deserves compensation for their time talking to content creators.

He finishes with “I’m just mind-blown at how big of a deal this is, when its not that big of a deal.”

This statement to me exemplifies that Reginald isn’t being malicious, he legitimately doesn’t understand how critical the two way relationship between organizations and the press is. OnGamers is a big name in eSports coverage; it would be the same to denying a major, national newspaper access to your sports team because of a show they sponsor where you disagree with the host’s opinions.

Reginald did make one point that I agree with however, that the press needs to be professional. The players are often young adults and do not have the confidence to deal with the hatred being thrown at them, most adults wouldn’t be well equipped either. It is important that the press is able to have honest and open discussions about the performance of players without fear of repercussions. Content cretors should be able to say a team is performing poorly or doing badly without worrying about losing interviews with that team. They do have to be careful to not cross the line however, to not insult the person instead of the player. Saying they are playing badly, not good etc is a judgement of their play, saying they are an idiot or something along those lines is an assault on character and should not be perpetuated. I am a strong believer that arguments can be solved by facts alone and defaulting to personal attacks takes legitimacy away from the fair points made in the argument by both sides.

So how do we achieve this harmony? First the idea of “blacklists” has to go. It is a half and half give/take relationship, not one where one partner gets to decide the fate of the other. As much as some team owners would love to have the power to decide what the press prints, that is not how the real world works. If teams only want positive press they are free to hire people to do public relations, but real journalism involves telling positive stories as well as negative ones, regardless of who they might be about.
But reporters are not without their share of the blame, they have to be smart about what it is we discuss, we can’t go making enemies with everyone in the scene, it’s not good business. Releasing information you have been strictly told is confidential or off the record, is not a good idea and is frowned upon in all types of journalism. We also have to be careful in how we tell the story, journalists have to make sure to stick to the facts as much as possible and critique actions not people. There is a big difference between saying “I think this is a dumb decision” and “I think the person who made this decision is dumb” – one is a judgement on the situation the other is a judgement on the person – the distinction needs to be clear.

Ultimately it is better for everyone if the press and the organizations work together. Players get more fans as there is more content with their face on available and the press is allowed to do their jobs. Allowing fans to better choose who their favourite players are is a service that the press does not charge teams for, they must report without bias to create content on a wide variety of people, Travis and Thooorin both accomplished this with their interviews (Travis in his fun interviews and Thooorin with his grilled/reflections interviews are both great examples of professionally conducted interviews in two very different styles) however with any positive comes a negative. If there is a real story that does not show you in a positive light it is not the fault of the reporter for reporting it but the fault of the person involved.This relationship deters bad behaviour, knowing what real world consequences could stem from them, and helps the industry improve.

It is no accident that a free press is one of the fundamental elements to free societies, and eSports is a part of that society. There will always be minor clashes between the organizations and the press that covers them, but ultimately the relationship is vital to the success of both of them. It is for this reason that journalists will continue to report on every issue that affects a team, both positive and negative, not only for the health of the industry, but for the integrity of journalism.
