With the announcement that “Mithy” and “Nukeduck” , two of the star players of EU Challenger team Ninjas in Pyjamas  formerly of Lemondogs, have been suspended until the end of 2014 begins a discussion about the attitudes of pro players in the general community and what affect that should have on their ability to play the game competitively. Let me preface this by saying i do not condone or encourage their behaviour, I am simply analyzing it.

Let us start by analyzing why Riot bans players from competing, the main reasons they give is that the players are considered “toxic” by the community. The word “toxic” is a heavily loaded term today in our community, but as we have come to understand it, it means that the players are disruptive of the game and behave poorly towards teammates. According to the figures released by Riot, both players were reported in about 30% of games that they played in and about 60% of their reports came from verbal abuse, offensive language or negative attitude categories.

Ultimately this means that 30% of the players they play against dislike them being in their games enough that they bother to report them, and they are definitely not the first players to receive such reactions. They are very different from the average toxicity case however, because they compete professionally. This is not Riot banning their accounts like they would to the most toxic non-professional players, this is players being banned from their profession to due to their conduct on the general servers. Riot likes to compare League to other professional sports, so thats where I’m going to start the comparison.

eSports is in a very unique situation in the world of professional competition and League of Legends seems to fall in a unique space within eSports. In no other arena are the professionals that the majority of the community admires forced to interact with that community at large on a daily basis. Poker tournaments become invite only and star players play only amongst themselves, professional athletes only practice with their team or their coaches, but in eSports the practice time for these players is done in a public arena. This means that these players are basically in the public spotlight around the clock. They have no time for personal reflection and development during practice, it is all done in the public light. This has both positive and negative outcomes that should be examined.

Because of the players always being in the public spot light, the fans get more content. It is probably one of the best thing about being a fan of eSports, the amount of content you get from your favourite personalities is leagues above the amount of content provided to you from anywhere else (music, sports you name it). No other industry gives you insight into a person’s time as much as eSports do. Streaming gives us access to their thoughts and opinions and makes us feel like we are in a room with them on a daily basis. These are all positives for eSports and are commonly cited as some of the reasons for its growth and rise in popularity.

The other side of the coin is one we are not as prepared to deal with. Because the players are always in the public eye they will appear to be human instead of larger than life, meaning we have to take these players for who they are and not the image fabricated to represent them. When spending so much time in the spotlight, it is impossible to keep up a false bravado, the result is we often get to see who these players really are. In the cases of these players the community seems to have decided their personalities are not acceptable, and the acceptable response was to remove them (and by definition top level talent) from competition. The effect is that the increased exposure to our favourite players actually hurts the top level of play as weaker players now have to get used in their place.

Some may feel that it is worth this trade off, that only the best players who are also good people should be able to compete, but here I forcefully disagree. Essentially it boils down to a matter of if we have a competitive scene to promote the game or to create the best, most wholesome players. If the whole thing is nothing more than an advertising ploy, then the actions make sense, Riot is looking to advertise for their game and therefore only want players that exude exemplary behaviour to take part. However if the goal is really to determine the best players, and create higher levels of competition then the action is misguided. How players act in Solo queue (a public practice environment) has no bearing on how they act within a team or with other professionals and should have no impact on their decision to compete professionally.

Before the outcry against how derogatory these players are to others, or how the situation is exactly what they deserved, consider an alternative point of view, one that includes how they must feel. These players have nowhere to practice without criticism and public exposure. Solo queue suddenly becomes a place where you have to prove your worth against every random player who ever reached a high elo. Your deaths and misplays become highlights on Reddit, your losses become screenshots for others to gloat about how they bested you. Would this not put some strain on a competitive individual?

I know many professionals are able to play without any problems of toxicity, but that does not make those who cannot deplorable humans with unexplainable actions. The rage often comes from the same place almost all rage comes from in this game, frustration and competitive drive. Anyone who has played over a hundred games of solo queue knows how frustrating the game can be, and anyone who is competitive knows how badly people who share that drive want to win. This is not excusing any of the things they said, merely framing it in a matter for you to understand that “toxic” behaviour from pros in solo queue stems from a force which may ultimately kill the community interaction we have come to love and expect from our favourite players.

That force is the desire to get better. It is absent from the large majority of the player base, and it is why many casual players aren’t toxic. They aren’t striving to get better, and if they are it is a casual goal. These professional players however, have decided they want to be among the best in the world, and the mentality they adapt when playing has to exemplify that. Our knee jerk reaction to players saying certain things is almost certainly driving some talent away, similarly to how people are put off from being involved in politics due to the heavy personal spotlight despite being an otherwise good fit. If you look at most eSports it is very rare for pros to mingle with the general community in the way they do in League and that is a large reason why.

Playing with amateurs when you are a pro, even if they are near your skill level, can be an exhausting experience. Every mistake gets you flamed, you are supposed to be an infallible god of big-plays, which nobody ever is. The result in other games is that pros do not frequent the solo queue environment instead electing for customs. When scrims are done pros would get together and play custom games (competitive rules) instead of going into the general queue. This let the players practice without exposing them to the nightmare that is dealing with the general population, and could be the way pros choose to practice in the future. They themselves get to choose who is in the game, which allows for high quality practice and this should worry proponents of the open channels of communication between pros and the general community.

So what is our solution? Banning them from competitive play has worked in the past with some players but at a cost, (they lose earning potential and the fans lose the ability to watch the “best” compete as now they must be replaced by lesser players) we just have to determine if the cost is worth it. Personally I would rather have them competing as I enjoy watching the highest level of play possible, and because of that I would offer a different alternative. I do not think that pro players are in any way shape or form role models for younger people. I believe they can be good inspiration for improving your play or achieving your dreams but being exceptionally talented at a certain activity does not automatically grant you wisdom to impart on younger people. We need to stop expecting these young adults to teach their fans how to act outside of improving at the game, the only area of life they are indeed qualified to teach. This also calls for a huge change in what we consider to be “toxic” behaviour.

As I’ve said in previous pieces, it is all a matter of opinion. The mute button exists for a reason, although many players have a hard time using it, in my opinion if someone ruins your game through verbal communication you ruined your own game by not using the mute button. Actions that ruin the game (going afk, feeding, refusing to cooperate or execute a strategy that will help you win) are what are considered “toxic” in all communities and those are the ones we should focus on (some communities are more sensitive than others when it comes to verbal harassment with LoL being by far the least accepting of any form of verbal altercation in my experience). The issue isn’t isolated to only pro players, but the way it affects them is certainly unique.

I do however, completely understand and sympathize with Riot wanting to be represented in a positive way, and I respect that dedication to the perception of their brand and commitment to creating an environment where everyone can feel comfortable competing or enjoying themselves playing a game. It is a value many players themselves hold, just look at how Tabz responded to their suspension, and as a former team-mate you would think his opinion would be of the most empathetic. There is no doubt that the players themselves want the community cleaned up, not just Riot, I just fear what consequences it may have on the highest levels of competition.

As I have stated  this article is not intended to defend either player, especially when they both, “Mithy” and “Nukeduck”, have admitted they believe the bans are fair and warranted. Merely it is to serve as a catalyst for conversation on the issues of what defines player toxicity and how we should best deal with pros acting in a way that does not embody the gold standard of player behaviour.
