As the North American 2015 Spring Split Expansion tournament has just gotten under way, there has already been some controversy that calls the competitive integrity of the entire tournament into question. In the first round of play, Team Fusion advanced over Team Confusion due to a forfeit. This may not seem dark or sinister on the surface, however this situation in particular leaves a lingering fear of foul play.

To give a brief summary of the situation to those unaware of the finer details, a player was a member of both Team Fusion and Team Confusion at the same time. This player, Joshua “Chunkyfresh” Kesrawani was a substitute player for Team Fusion at the same time as being on the starting roster for Team Confusion. This itself is not uncommon in challenger, many players are a member of multiple rosters. For example, Parsa “Frostalicious” Baghai, was on Final Five, Confusion and a team called We Love Shakira before entering the tournament with Zenith eSports.  This issue stems from the fact that Chunkyfresh was actually a live-in substitute for Team Fusion. This means he was actually living in a house with the members of Team Fusion while retaining his position as a starter on another team within the same tournament.

nintendudex
Team Fusion Jungler Joshua “Nintendudex” Atkins said on league talk show First Blood that no collusion took place between the two teams.

Obviously, this situation holds tremendous potential to be morally hazardous. Due to his living arrangements Chunkyfresh could easily have been placed in a situation where he was forced to choose between his current living arrangements, and doing his is best to ensure Team Confusion advanced within the tournament. Regardless of whether pressure was applied to him or not, the situation is a dangerous one which could easily be avoided by ensuring that two rosters within the same tournament don’t have any common affiliations between players or coaches.

Team Fusion took to Reddit to declare their innocence in the situation, stating they had done nothing wrong. Owner of the organization, Alden “Veyloris” Haight, claims that upon acquiring the player they had no idea he was a member of another team, and in fact only became aware of the fact upon him requesting permission to stay up later to play with his second team. Clearly Haight didn’t take his second team seriously, as the thought of him playing with a second team that could potentially qualify for the same tournament Team Fusion was in didn’t bother him.

“To start, I didn’t even know Chunky was on a team when we added him to the roster. We just knew him as a star of solo queue and not much else. He originally mentioned the team when he asked for permission to stay up later so he could climb with them late at night (because my boy Chunky is hella polite). After that, it was pretty much a non-issue in our minds.”

The main reasons he cites for why it seems improbable that Team Fusion did such a thing are based on the extremely late release date of the bracket, saying there was no way for them to game the system. Haight also claims that Confusion was not a team they were concerned about in the tournament, and if they had to bribe their way past them they would have no chance at actually making it into the LCS.

“I’d like to point out the fact that no one had the slightest clue as to exactly what the bracket was for awhile. We thought we were playing CoL.White, or LoLPro first round, for the longest time. “Gaming” seeds is obviously something that would make this situation possible, but honestly, no one knew how many teams were coming off the ladder, which made gaming the seeding impossible”

“If we’re having to bribe our way out of the first round, we wouldn’t have a chance later on. No disrespect to Chunky’s team, but to put it lightly, they weren’t the match we spent our time extensively preparing for. In addition, for people saying we didn’t want to give up strats: we have MakNoon. That guy could pick a different champion every match of the tournament and still be relevant in each game. And if you don’t buy that, then why would we need to have pocket strats in the first round of the tournament? Again, there’s just so little reason for this decision to be made on our part.”

There is something even more disturbing than the fact the organization didn’t realize how potentially dangerous this situation was. Neither Riot Games, the group in charge of the LCS, nor the Electronic Sports League, the group running the tournament, seemed to think it was dangerous either. Being on multiple rosters within the client is one thing, however living with one team while playing for another is a serious escalation of that potential conflict of interests.

“The actual fact that he was on multiple rosters, to my knowledge, was never an issue with the ESL.”

The fact that the ESL and Riot never brought it up as an issue to him is quite alarming and begs the question: How is living in one team’s house while being registered to play for their competition not morally problematic? Did they really know he was on Team Confusion while living with Team Fusion and  not foresee the potential ethical problems that could arise from the situation?

Teams with more developed infrastructure, where coaches and substitutes are present and heavily involved in the success of a team, are rare in the West. In more developed regions such as Korea, the idea of coaches and substitutes living in a house with the starters and being instrumental to their success is common. However, in the Western regions, this ideology is only now beginning to become commonplace, and as a result the rules and regulations around such a situation seems to be lacking.

The good news is the process is under way, although it is proceeding slowly. A few months ago Riot announced it would be officially recognizing coaches as part of the LCS in 2015, and the logical extension of this philosophy will be to include substitute players as integral parts of any team as well. Hopefully doing so will result in less situations like this, where the competitive integrity of an entire event can be called into question over one silly mishap.

In this situation, it will be very hard to ultimately prove any sort of collusion or wrong doing. With Team Fusion being adamant about their innocence, and members of the Confusion also claiming that Team Fusion had no role in this and to not blame Chunkyfresh, proving anything will be nearly impossible. Especially when coupled with the fact that Chunkyfresh lived in the Team Fusion house, making verbal face to face communication easy, further complicating finding evidence of wrongdoing. Although there was little reason for collusion to occur, and this really was just an innocent mistake, the potential conflict of interests is certainly worrying. Hopefully this situation simply serves as a reminder to Riot and independent tournament organizers that the game is growing, and teams infrastructure along side of it. No longer is simply submitting the starting roster sufficient, but all substitute players and support staff as well if potentially hazardous situations that can jeopardize the competitive integrity of a tournament are to be avoided.

Edit:  Charles Watson, creative producer for ESL, was kind enough to give us a comment to try and clarify the situation.

“Due to the close-knit nature of the NA Challenger scene, players often join or leave ranked 5s rosters. The rules of the NA LCS Expansion tournament reflected that: anyone who played more than five ranked games with a team on ladder could compete on that team’s roster in the Expansion Tournament, provided they choose a single team to compete on.

FSN Chunky was not in anyway breaking the rules by being on more than one 5s ladder team, and was not solely responsible for Confusion withdrawing from the tournament. Confusion actually had one of the largest rosters, with nine eligible players qualifying through the Ranked 5s team.

We had more than a dozen roster conflicts for teams seeded from the 5s ladder, but each player committed to a single team for the tournament. No player was issued tournament realm accounts for more than a single team.”
