Over the past four years the League of Legends community has experienced explosive growth. While the rift has been expanding, so has the popularity of people prevalent within it. Sadly, as the community has grown, some of its most negative aspects have been left unchecked and have grown along side of it.

The problem is no secret to community members, nor is it exclusive to League of Legends but instead the internet as a whole. While the growth of the game has made online personas famous, the community tends to forget that their peers, alongside these personas, are like them– young people. This is something the community as a whole needs to consider. Is the current behaviour correct moving forward? Negativity has the potential to drive active members away, and discourage potential new ones from ever trying to make it in the first place.

Ill treatment of others is rampant throughout the community, from the lowest levels where smurfs dominate the landscape right up to the highest level of competition. The cases are abundant; Zach “Nien” Malhas stepping down from CLG due to constant harassment (amongst other factors), both Duncan “Thooorin” Shields and Richard Lewis constantly receive hate and derogatory remarks on the content they produce for the community’s enjoyment. The case with Thooorin and Richard Lewis has devolved to the point where there are now debates about whether by doing what they do, and how they do it within the community, do they even deserve to NOT receive hateful remarks? It is a sad state of affairs when a content creator or journalist of any kind is treated with such disrespect by the people they produce content for.

Svenskeren was punished for racially insensitive comments and missed half of his team's games at Worlds. The behavior is prevalent at all levels in the community.
Svenskeren was punished for racially insensitive comments and missed half of his team’s games at Worlds. The behavior is prevalent at all levels in the community.

Recently, one has to look no further than during the 2014 World Championship where Dennis “Svenskeren” Johnsen was suspended for being racially insensitive. Another example being the recent twitter war between Christopher “MonteCristo” Mykles and both TSM owner Andy “Reginald” Dinh and TSM coach Yoonsup “Locodoco” Choi. The situation got so unnecessarily ugly it was subsequently reported to Riot and guilty parties apologized for their behavior.

If the persona in question is female the trend is even more disturbing. Look at the comments on this interview between Eefje “Sjokz” Depoortere and Susie “Lil Susie” Kim, or some of the comments directed at Ryanne “Froskurinn” Mohr after she hosted an episode of World’s recap .

The Root of the Problem

The problem has two distinct causes. The first is that our community exists, for the most part, in an online domain. People make comments online that are incredibly hurtful and go too far. What many fail to realize is their comments are being read by another human. Social media platforms like Reddit and Twitter, both incredibly popular in the community, allow for communication to go one way. Users can send a nasty comment, or leave an insidious reply on a thread, and never see the reaction of the person reading it.

These forms of communication allow many users to make remarks that they would never even consider making to a person in a face-to-face scenario, or over the phone. The lopsidedness of these forms of communication creates a situation very new to human interaction.Research is just emerging on the internet’s effects on people’s everyday lives, and thus it is no surprise that this is where the majority of the negativity lies. The problem exists everywhere online, songs even describe it in pop culture. The problem is not unique to the League of Legends community, but it certainly is widespread within it.

The second cause of many of the problems seems to be an inexplicable failure by the community to separate a person from their work. Almost every casual player has experienced this, with comments such as “get cancer” and other unspeakable insults players throw at one another for simply performing poorly in game. Players go beyond the play of their teammate, and attack the person playing directly, which can make playing a game that doesn’t go well incredibly unenjoyable. Unfortunately, behaviour patterns on the rift extend outward to the community at large, and many people in our community are attacked for personal characteristics when someone disagrees with their work, or feel they are under performing.

Nien is one of the personalities in the community that immediately comes to mind when discussing negative impacts of community behavior on a person's career and well being.
Nien is one of the personalities in the community that immediately comes to mind when discussing negative impacts of community behavior on a person’s career and well being.

Evidence of this type of behaviour is plentiful. Nien leaving CLG partly due to being constantly attacked by members of the community, as Yiliang “Doublelift” Peng outlined on numerous occasions , is one of the most prominent examples that comes to mind. Journalist Travis Gafford made an excellent video log detailing the difference between trash talk, intelligent critique, and deliberate personal attacks and the effects they have on content creators and pro players within the community and the negative impacts it has on their careers.The criticism often extends past the work and onto the person itself, which is enough for some players to call it quits, and could be intimidating enough that up and coming players or content creators never get involved in the first place.

From Bad to Worse

If the community can be a harsh place for pro players and content creators to exist in, it is even a harsher climate for women. This issue is certainly not exclusive to the League of Legends community, and is actually an issue in many communities online, but has been an especially hot topic in gaming communities recently. The League of Legends community can be an incredibly hostile place for females; LPL colour caster Froskurinn is unfortunately all too used to it

“When I cast its constant. Make this girl shut up. Ugly Girl. Where’s my dinner girl? Get back to the kitchen. Replace girl with any racial slur – these sentences are doing the exact the same thing”

The point she brings up is valid,  sexism, racism, homophobia or any other kind of discrimination are all systematic forms of oppression. The attacks themselves are very similar, despite manifesting for different reasons, attacking women seems to be far more acceptable within the community. The thing to note, is that it is almost certainly a small minority of the community that acts this way, however that does not mean the rest of the community is innocent. It is up to the community at large to make it clear that this sort of behaviour is not acceptable, otherwise it will continue to be the norm. This is something that is not tolerated in general society. Behavior like this seems to exist and thrive online, League of Legends is sadly no exception.

Sjokz is well known as one of the few popular female personalities in League of Legends. Getting more women involved will be difficult considering the abuse some of them face on a regular basis for their gender.
Sjokz is well known as one of the few popular female personalities in League of Legends. Getting more women involved will be difficult considering the abuse some of them face on a regular basis due to their gender.

It is also important that Riot and content creators value the contribution some of these women make to the community. Riot needs to expand on who and how it utilises the female experts readily available within the scene past the current presenting roles it has for Riot MsPudding and Sjokz. It was saddening to see them neglect to bring in experts on the Chinese scene like Froskurinn or Kelsey Moser to add their analytical knowledge to the desk. There aren’t many women in League in any sort of analytical roles but giving some of the ones who are exposure and supporting them is an important step if we want to see more. The ones we do have constantly have the validity of their opinions questioned, not because of facts to the contrary but because they are women.This is an issue that OnGamers should be applauded for tackling head on by including them on Summoning Insight as well as one of the Worlds recap videos and hosting China Talk. This needs to happen more in the community to make it a more welcoming place for women.

A New Beginning

One of the beautiful things about eSports and the League of legends community is that it is a new and developing thing in a world that is largely filled with established organizations and systems. The rapid growth of League of Legends provides an opportunity for everyone involved, to build a community and a system that they can be proud of and boast about their participation within. The alternative is that the community drives newcomers away, as players have expressed in the past the community can be hard to deal with.

Deep down this isn’t what the community wants, the amount of content created and the personal bonds fans can make with their favourite personalities is something truly unique to eSports culture. League of Legends shouldn’t be the game that ends that. If community figures withdrew themselves from interactions with fans eSports and League of Legends would lose one of the key aspects that makes it so special.

Trick2g
Streamers like Trick2g are very popular in the community. His entertaining personality and continuous community engagement have allowed for him to create a loyal fan base that he interacts with on a nearly daily basis. This kind of interaction has played a critical part in the growth in popularity of eSports.

It isn’t exactly a secret that this community can be immature, but with the average age of the people in it being rather young that is to be expected. The goal should be to make the community a place that is welcoming for people of both sexes, and one that encourages others to do better instead of tearing others down. Not everyone will agree on everything, and that is fine it makes things more interesting when people have differing points of view.

The key is to remember every time you publish a Tweet, or post a comment, it will be read by another human, so please try and act as if you are speaking directly to them instead of sending off an anonymous message into the darkest depths of internet. If everyone did that things still won’t be perfect, but it will certainly be a step in the right direction. Doing so would send a message to all other communities on the internet that this one is different, it is a community conscious of its actions and the impact those actions have on others, otherwise League of Legends will continue to be grouped with some of the other places on the internet where hatred and hostility know no boundaries.
