Do your hands ever get sweaty when playing or tired from holding the controller for long hours? If you’re like me the answer to both of those questions was yes and not only was it hindering my performance, but it made gaming less enjoyable. Learn more about Kontrol Freek Performance Grips.


Over the years I’ve tried multiple remedies to these problems. I frequently used baby powder and kept a towel on hand to keep both my hands and the controller dry but it was a bit of a pain to do so.


About a year ago I wandered into an EB Games with some friends and saw one of the generic grips sold for controllers and decided to give one a shot. I immediately took a liking to the product and became an instant believer in controller grips, but that product had its drawbacks. Mainly the texture was too smooth, meaning that over time the grip lost significant amount of its effectiveness and left me looking for another option or replacement.


Enter the KontrolFreek Performance Grips. While I had heard a lot about the product I had never actually tried one myself and was excited to see the difference between their product and the more generic version I had been previously using.


After a few pretty long and intense gaming session I’m definitely impressed with the grips so far.


Unlike the generic sleeve which slipped over my entire controller the Performance Grips are two individual wraps that you place on the controller yourself. This was easy enough to accomplish by simply following the instructions on the back of the packaging. The fact that the grips only go over the lower portion of the controller has the hidden benefit of raising that portion of the controller allowing for the controller to more easily rest in your hands.


This brings me to the first benefit of the Performance Grips which I hadn’t even considered before owning a set of these myself. Playing for hours at a time and gripping the controller tightly in your hands can wear them out, making them tired and causing your performance to suffer. I didn’t even fully realize I had that problem until the first time I used these for multiple hours and noticed how relaxed and fresh my hands still felt. The difference is difficult to describe but it feels as if the controller now rests in my hands rather than me holding it up.


Kontrol Freek Performance Grips


The second and most obvious benefit to the Performance Grips is the increased hold on the controller itself, preventing things such as sweating from causing the controller to slip. Despite the controller now resting in my hands with less effort, it feels more sturdy than ever. The textured nature of the KontrolFreek version of the Performance Grips is far superior to the smooth generic ones. And while I have not had the product long enough to comment on long term durability, the textured design leads me to suspect it will last significantly longer than its generic counterparts.


Overall the KontrolFreek Performance Grips are significantly superior to the generic versions sold, and are remarkably similar in price. After now owning a set myself the only thing I’m upset about is not getting a pair sooner, the near 5-star rating the product boasts on the company website is no joke. They are definitely an investment worth making for anyone looking to take their game to the next level, or simply get a little bit more enjoyment out of extended gaming sessions with friends.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
