After their victory at The Overguard Haste 1k Qualifier we caught up with Jaru from Toronto Esports to talk about the team and their future in competitive Overwatch. Read more in our eSports Professional Profile.

WorldGaming: You played incredibly well  on various DPS heroes en route to your victory at The Overguard Haste qualifier, any quick general DPS tips for players looking to improve their game?

Jaru: Definitely! For players trying to improve their play I’d recommend finding a sensitivity that is comfortable for them and constantly asking yourself “Why did I just die?” Was I separated from my team? Did I lose a duel I shouldn’t have? Ect. From there it’s easy to identify what you have to improve on.

WorldGaming: When did the Toronto Esports roster that won that even form? How did the team come together?

Jaru:  Haha, the roster that just won was officially put together mid-March. It was assembled by our coach and Toronto Esports management. We had a lot of tryouts for the positions we were trying to fill, and everything just kind of fell into place with personalities and skillsets.

WorldGaming: How much time does the team spend practicing together? What aspirations does this team have? What future competitions should we look for you in?

Jaru: Typically, we spend 4-6 hours playing in scrimmages against other teams every day, with pretty frequent video review of our gameplay (as a team, and individuals) with our coach. Moving forward we definitely plan on improving as a team since we’re still a new roster, and hopefully with the time put in we can become a force in the top tier of competitive Overwatch. Hopefully you guys can see us in the last Overwatch Monthly Melee this month!

WorldGaming: What are the next steps for you personally in your career? Any goals you’d like to share?

Jaru: I’m actually going to be moving from Southern California to Toronto later this month to go move into the new team house our organization just purchased! Obviously as a team we want to be the best we can be but as an individual I want that #1 spot on the Top 500 leaderboard.

WorldGaming: Favourite DPS Hero? What about them makes them your favourite?

Jaru: I definitely have an inclination towards playing Genji, I think he’s a lot of fun to play, has a pretty high skill ceiling and has a lot of opportunity to outplay your opponent.

WorldGaming: Any shoutouts, final words?

Jaru: Definitely! My mom for letting me pursue Esports as a career even though it sounds crazy, my coach for always criticizing me and motivating me to improve and Toronto Esports for making this all possible! Finally I’d like to thank my teammates for being my best friends, bringing this home and hopefully many more in the future.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
