The Call of Duty World League was once again in Europe June 24th and 25th bringing premier teams together to battle it out for their share of $25, 000. With CWL Anaheim taking place just the previous weekend, some teams decided to sit this event out in order to ensure they were properly rested and ready to go for the second stage of the CWL which is set to begin shortly. Among the teams to sit this event out was Splyce, a roster from the UK that many hoped would be in attendance.

Despite the absence of Splyce the event had many other big name teams to get excited about. Fnatic, Epsilon, eRa Eternity and Supremacy all advanced through the group stages without suffering a defeat while Millenium, Red Reserve EU and Elevate EU all advanced through groups as well.

Epsilon continued to put on an incredibly impressive performance all weekend long. After a full five games series in the first round against Elevate, Epsilon was able to easily dispatch of both Red Reserve and Fnatic to put themselves in the grand finals.

Down in the loser’s bracket Red Reserve would prove to be determined to have a chance at revenge. Their first match was a rematch against Supremacy whom they had defeated in the first round of the championship bracket. This elimination series ultimately took all 5 games however Red Reserve were able to prove their initial victory was no fluke and walk past Supremacy once again.

This placed Red Reserve in the loser’s bracket finals against a Fnatic squad that had just been handily defeated by Epsilon. With the momentum from their match against Supremacy on their side, Red Reserve was able to secure the series in four games sending Fnatic home while simultaneously securing their place in the Grand Finals, and a rematch against Epsilon.

While the loser’s bracket run was impressive it appeared that by the Grand Finals Red Reserve was out of gas. Epsilon came into the series confident and rested, and were able to quickly and convincingly take the final series home in a clean three game sweep.

Epsilon is now clearly in an elite category of European talent alongside Splyce. Every other major talented team from Europe was in attendance and Epsilon made the event look easy. European fans will be sure to cheer for them in upcoming international events as they have a legitimate shot at beating even the best North Americans.

If you’d like more information on the event including the entire bracket, placements, match scores or anything else related to the event go here.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
