World Gaming got a chance to ask Ram “Brokenshard” Djemal, former coach of Eunited and current coach of Brazilian squad Red Candids, some questions surrounding his last split with Europe, MSI and his future.

WorldGaming: Hey Thanks for doing this! Lets start with the most recent news. You have joined Red Canids as the coach for the MSI. Why this squad in particular? What goals do you have for the team? How long do you plan on staying?

Brokenshard: I was approached by the RED Canids about 5 days into my off-season vacation. I’m fairly sure I was approached due to my previous working relationship with Tockers, their mid laner. They had informed me of some issues with their current coaching staff (that he was bought out by a different organisation) and needed a replacement one (coach) ASAP. Initially I was to go to MSI as a trial, but after talks with both the team and the organisation I decided to stay on for the summer split.

WorldGaming: Do you expect there to be differences, or have you already encountered some, in working with Brazilians versus Europeans and North Americans? If there are describe them for us.

Brokenshard: The main differences I’ve discovered is that the fans in Brazil are insane. Both in good ways and bad! Very passionate. There also seems to be a very lax scrim culture as teams are frequeuntly 15-40 minutes late for scrims..

WorldGaming: Last split you worked with EUnited. What were you expectations at the start of the split for the team? Did you guys live up to them?

Brokenshard: The expectations for eUnited was to make it into the LCS, that was the goal. We started off strong going 8-2 in the regular season but we didn’t promote into the LCS so we didn’t live up to our expectations. At the end of the split I was informed by the organisations management that they wanted to go a different direction with the coaching staff and decided to release me from my contract.

WorldGaming: Do you find any differences in the dynamics of teams between North America and Europe? If so what are these differences and how do they affect how a team is coached?

Brokenshard: There seems to be a very big difference in attitudes between challenger NA players and challenger EU players. Its really quite hard to place my finger on a lot of it, but it has a lot to do with mannerisms, what is acceptable criticism, use of vocabulary etc. European players will respond to different mannerisms better or worse than NA players, so it is really something I have to watch for when I talk to my players. For example, if I want to give criticism to a European player I would do it much differently than to a North American player, at least from my experience, they both respond very differently to different forms of conversation.

WorldGaming: What is an aspect of the coach’s role that often goes unnoticed or unappreciated by the community, fans or even pro players? Why do you think this aspect of coaching is given so little attention?

Brokenshard: Keeping teams together. There is so much internal drama on teams, coaches who can keep that shit together are really invaluable.

WorldGaming: What do you think is your biggest strength as a coach? If there was one aspect of being a coach you had to improve what do you think that would be?

Brokenshard: My biggest strengths as a coach in my opinion is my understanding of how to abuse poor drafting/planning by an enemy coach, dealing with players on a day-to-day basis, and setting up scrim plans and lesson plans for the team. I definitely can shore up my game knowledge a lot, and become more consistent in my own drafting.

WorldGaming: You’ve made quite a few transitions back and forth from playing to coaching, how has that affected you in both roles? Made you better? Been a distraction? In an ideal world would you play or coach?

Brokenshard: Coaching helped me become a better player for sure, and playing helped me set myself up to be a coach. However if I ever wanted to become a player again I would not be very successful as I don’t have the motivation to grind games anymore. In an ideal world I think i’d like to still coach.

WorldGaming: Which one of the past teams you’ve been involved with, as a player or coach, was your favourite to be a part of? Why?

Brokenshard: I can’t pick a favorite! Thats like asking me who my favorite child is! Every team is different, both for good and for bad.

WorldGaming: Going back into your past your career path is obviously one that is very inspiring for many up and coming players or future coaches. How did you make the transition from player to coach so smoothly? What advice do you have for pro players or amateurs who may want to make a similar career decision.

Brokenshard: When I was faced with the decision of “what’s next,” I thought long and hard about my strengths and weaknesses as a person and as a professional league of legends player. I literally sat down in front of the white board in the Copenhagen Wolves house after I was informed they would resume using Airwaks and listed everything out. Every single pro was related to something coaching wise (drafting, shot calling, leading) whereas every con pushed me far away from playing (lack of motivation to grind, weak mechanics). It just made the most logical sense to become a coach.

WorldGaming: Any other plans for your future (involving league or not)?

Brokenshard: I just want to see how things go. I like to go with the flow. I’m young, I’m very financially stable for the next.. well many years I’d say. I can do whatever I want and I’m very fortunate for that.

WorldGaming: Thanks so much for giving us some of your time! Any shout outs or people to thank?

Brokenshard: Shoutout to all of my fans and haters, the fans make it worth it and the haters make me laugh. Also big shoutout to Felippe from RED Canids for giving me the oppurtunity to come to MSI and keep coaching in Brazil.

Thanks again to Brokenshard for doing the interview, make sure you follow him on twitter to see what he’s up to on a regular basis!

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
