Seven of the best European teams and Misfits, a North American team entering through a qualifier, gathered in Tours, France this past weekend to compete in an invitational Counter Strike Global Offensive tournament held by Dreamhack. This was considered a “major” in the tournament circuit with $100, 000 being divided amongst the teams including a $50 000 purse for the winner. Read more about CS:GO at Dreamhack.

New To Counter Strike?
– Be the Best Player on your Team


Join A CS:GO Turf Wars Bracket


The tournament began by splitting the teams into two group and running a double elimination format with the top two teams from each group advancing to the playoffs and the bottom squads being eliminated from contention.

Despite being the only North American team and having a poor start to the event Misfits were able to advance into the final four. After handedly being defeated by NaVi 16-5 in their opening match they had to play Heroic in a best of three and were able to emerge victorious in a close 16-12 final game on Train.

This set Misfits up for a rematch against NaVi. After dropping Cobblestone 16-7 it appeared that Misfits were done for as game two would be played on train, the map the original matchup was played on that Misfits lost so badly. This time the tables were turned however and it would be Misfits who were able to dominate the map 16-9 forcing a game three. The match would be played on Mirage and Misfits was easily the better team, winning by a resounding 16-4 score.

From there the tournament moved into a single elimination bracket with the teams playing best of threes. This would be as far as the North Americans would get, as they were swept by HellRaisers in the semi finals.

Previous Counter Strike Coverage
– CSL Staff Predictions
– Dreamhack Leipzig
– CSL Finals Preview

The other semi final matchup would go the full three games. Despite being able to win the second map and force a third game, mousesports was thoroughly outplayed by G2 Esports in the first and third maps.

This set up the finals between G2 and HellRaisers. Coming in off their dominating performances in the semifinals G2 appeared to be unstoppable in the first game and were able to come away with a resounding 16-6 victory. While HellRaisers were able to put up a better fight in the second match they fell just short losing in the final round, thus giving G2 the victory in the game and a 2-0 sweep of the series to win the tournament.


Join A CS:GO Turf Wars Bracket


For more information on the event, you can view how the entire bracket played out or visit the official Dreamhack Youtube page to watch the VoDs from the event.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
