The second Halo 5 World Championship took place March 24-26th at the ESL Studios in Burbank, California. The best 12 teams from around the world were brought in to compete for their share of a $1 million prize pool and the glory of being crowned best team in the world. Read more in our Halo World Championship coverage.


There were seven teams representing North America, three from Europe, one from Latin America and one from Australia / New Zealand. Teams were divided into four groups of three teams for round robin pool play for seeding purposes. The bottom team from each group at the end of pool play was automatically placed in the first round of loser’s bracket, while the rest began in Winner’s bracket in a double elimination event.


Four of the five teams from outside North America were eliminated without winning a match and three of them never even won a game. Despite failing to win a match the French squad Supremacy deserve an honourable mention. They took a game off two different North American teams including handing the eventual tournament champions Optic Gaming one of only two losses they would receive all tournament.


The UK’s FAB Games eSports faired the best out of the teams from outside North America, but they were unable to take more than a game from any North American squad leaving them with a 7th/8th finish.


The three top teams from North America were all ready for the final event of the season and brought their best to the table. The second and third seeded teams in Liquid and nV were forced to do battle in the first round of the winner’s bracket due to nV being upset by Splyce in pool play. The series went the full seven games however liquid was able to defeat nV for the third time in as many events.


This forced an incredible loser’s bracket run from nV where they would win 16 games in a row to secure themselves a spot in the loser’s bracket finals. This set the stage for an intense rematch against Liquid who had fallen to Optic Gaming 4-1 in the winner’s bracket finals.


The series begun as a back and forth struggle with each team taking two of the first four in the series. The taste of defeat still fresh from earlier in the weekend nV seemed determined to not let that happen again. Coming out strong they secured games five and six for themselves finally defeating the Liquid squad that had given them so much trouble this season and securing their spot in the grand finals.


Unfortunately for nV by the time they had reached the finals it looked like they may have used up much of their energy. They had fantastic starts in the first three games in the series, only to watch Optic Gaming take control and turn each one around. This lead to a deflated team nV and an easy game four win for Optic Gaming giving them the sweep en route to securing their second consecutive Halo 5 World Championship.


If you missed any of the action this weekend and want to watch the games for yourself all of the VoD’s can be found on the official Halo Twitch channel.


Optic Gaming emerging victorious from this event was certainly not a surprise. They have looked fantastic since the formation of the roster and despite losing a tournament here and there have largely held the competitive crown for the majority of two seasons. Despite failing to dethrone Optic, the nV and Liquid rosters that formed in order to oppose them this season did a far better job than any team did in the first season.  Maybe next season one of them will succeed.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
