The North American League of Legends Championship Series (LCS) Summer Promotional tournament took place March 31st-April 2nd determining the final teams that will compete in the Summer Split of the LCS. The summer split is seen as the most essential component of the season as winning automatically qualifies a team for the World Championship.


Previous League of Legends Coverage

– 2016 League of Legends World Finals


Team Liquid and Team EnVyUs both competed in the spring split of the LCS however they finished the regular season with the two worst records of the ten teams competing. This forced them to play through this promotion tournament if they wanted to return for the summer split.


The tournament was a four-team double elimination bracket with the top two teams advancing to the LCS for the summer. The other two teams would be relegated to the Challenger Series and be unable to qualify for the World Championship at the end of the year.


Team Liquid was the first to secure their spot in the next season of play. They won their first matchup against eUnited 3-1 pitting them against Gold Coin United (GCU) for a summer split LCS slot.  The series was a close one, going the full five games, however in the end Liquid was able to secure the victory and retain their LCS spot.


After this loss against Liquid, GCU would have one more opportunity to advance to the LCS. This time it would be against Team EnVyUs in a rematch from the first round of play. Despite GCU winning the match on Friday by a 3-1 score, they were not able to replicate that success in the series that mattered most. Again the series went the full five games and again GCU fell, allowing Team EnVyUs to breath a sigh of relief and rejoin the LCS.


For the top six LCS spring split teams playoffs are soon to begin. Teams will fight for their share of a $200 000 prize pool and Championship Points which will help them qualify for the World Championship.


Playoff action will commence Saturday April 8th at 15:00EST/ 12:00PST as Phoenix1 get ready to take on Team Dignitas. Sunday will see Counter Logic Gaming do battle with FlyQuest to advance to the final four at the same starting time.


You can watch the games live from the official Riot Games twitch stream or the LoL eSports Youtube account.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
