The preliminary play-in stage of the 2017 League of Legends Mid Season Invitational (MSI) has concluded, qualifying the final teams for the event set to begin on May 10th. The reigning champions from Europe, China and South Korea awaited 3 more regional champions to make it past the play-in portion to set the scene for a six team international showdown. Read more in our League of Legends Mid Season Invitational recap.


Previous League of Legends Coverage

● NA LCS Spring Finals Recap
● Spring 2017 Semi Final Recap
● NA Spring Relegation Coverage
● 2016 League of Legends World Finals


The MSI is being held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil from May 10th-21st at the Jeunesse Arena. It is one of the two yearly major international competitions of its kind, the other being the World Championship. The six teams compete in a double round robin  before proceeding to a single bracket elimination format for the remaining portion of the event.


Despite North America being considered one of the “Big Four” they were forced to qualify for the MSI through a smaller play-in featuring teams from many of the smaller lesser known regions. As a result fans expected North America to breeze past the competition but this couldn’t have been further from the truth.


For North American Team SoloMid to advance to the MSI they first had to defeat the Marines. What many thought would be an extremely one sided victory quickly became an incredibly intense back and forth match. TSM has been notorious in the past for starting slowly in best of five series so when they dropped the first game there was some surprise but not worry. The second game quickly changed that however when the Marines were able to secure another decisive victory for themselves putting them a single win away from the MSI.


With their backs against the wall TSM came out swinging in games three and four and were able to earn decisive victories in a fashion that more closely aligned with fan expectations. Setting the stage for a climactic fifth and final game that didn’t fail to disappoint.


Much like in the series, overconfidence from TSM early in the game got them into trouble. A dive bottom lane went horribly wrong giving the Marines an early multiple kill advantage. The game would turn out to be a perfect mirror for the series however as TSM would manage to stabilize the game and gain the upper hand ultimately leading to their victory in the game and series.


Teams at MSI


– G2 Esports – Europe
– SK Telecom K – South Korea
– Team WE – China
– Team SoloMid – North America – Qualified through play-in
– Flash Wolves – Taiwan/ Hong Kong/ Macao – Qualified through play-in
– GIGABYTE Marines – Southeast Asia – Qualified through play-in


All was not lost for the Marines however as they had one last chance to qualify for the main event. On the other side of the bracket Flash Wolves bested SuperMassive to advance into the MSI as well leaving one final match between the Marines and SuperMassive to decide the final spot. In a series that was not nearly as nerve wracking as the previous one against TSM, the Marines were able to secure the final slot at the MSI by defeating SuperMassive 3-1.


You will be able to find any information pertaining to the MSI here and can catch the round robin action live on official Riot Games twitch channel starting at 2PM EST each day between May 10th-15th.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
