April 8th and 9th saw UMG Events setup shop in Sault Ste. Marie Ontario for a $10K Pro-Am Call of Duty Tournament. In attendance were tournament favourites and recent Canadian World Gaming Champions Set To Destroy, looking to further cement their dominance over the Canadian Call of Duty scene.


Set to Destroy was able to dominate the tournament handily, never dropping a single map over the course of the entire event. Despite the ease with which Set to Destroy won, a player from the other finals squad, 1Hype, using the alias “The Anonally”, was able to prove to everyone in attendance and viewing the tournament online that he was able to compete with some of Canada’s top talent.


The event acted as a showcase for some lesser known Canadian talent, and allowed many of these players to experience the bright lights of esports for the very first time.  Players in attendance were given the opportunity to play on a main stage with a live audience. In addition to this all games were streamed, casted and analyzed by some incredibly talented and popular names from within the Call of Duty Space such as:


After all the action from the weekend was said and done we sat down with Xotic and Holler from Set to Destroy to talk about their squad, victory and accomplishments as a Canadian Team.


Q. First of all, Congrats on both the win here today as well as your victory at the World Gaming championships last weekend!
Xotic: Thanks!
Holler: Thanks!


Q. How long have you guys been in the competitive Call of Duty Scene
Xotic: I’ve been playing competitively for about one and a half years
Holler: I started playing casually with CoD4 but didn’t start playing competitively until about three years ago.


Q. You guys won the World Gaming Canadians championships last weekend and now you win this UGC event. What’s next for you as a team?
Xotic: We’re going to continue competing in Canadian events. We haven’t lost yet so we might as well keep on going!


Q. Speaking of winning events, what was your favourite moment from the World Gaming Championships?
Xotic: 30 seconds before the final game ends and you realize you’re going to win. It was a pretty surreal feeling.
Holler: Yea, definitely the last 30 seconds when it sinks in that we were actually going to prove people wrong and take the win…. It was a pretty great feeling.


Q. Would you guys describe that as the pinnacle of your professional careers to date?
Xotic: Definitely.
Holler: Absolutely.


Q. What do you guys think about the Canadian scene
Xotic: There are some good players in Canada, especially in Southern Ontario and on the West Coast.
Holler: The real problem with the Canadian scene is how spread out we are. There’s a few people scattered around that are really good, but the distance between everyone is so massive. The talent is just really scattered around the country making it difficult for the scene to come together cohesively. Canada is a big place.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
