The CWL went across the Atlantic April 14-16th for an open event in Birmingham, England. The event was exclusive to European teams and served as a showcase for some of the best Call of Duty talent across the continent. The twelve teams with the most pro points across Europe were automatically entered into pool play while everyone else fought for the final four spots. The teams were fighting for their share of $50 000 and a chance to earn up to 10 000 pro points. Find out what happened in our CWL Birmingham Recap.


Want more CWL news? Check out more highlights below:
Call of Duty World League: 5 Important Rules To Know
Optic Gaming Win The CWL Paris Open
EUnited Win The CWL Atlanta Open
 CWL Dallas Recap


As pool play came to a conclusion and initial winners bracket matches were played, the spotlight was all on Splyce. They had not lost a single game the entire event heading into the winners bracket finals and appeared unstoppable. Here they ran into a talented Epsilon roster and although Splyce was able to keep their win streak alive and secure a close series 3-2 the story would be about Epsilon from this point on.


The loss placed Epsilon into the losers bracket for an intense rematch against Fnatic; the two had been in the same pool and Epsilon narrowly won 3-2. This time Epsilon appeared fired up after their recent defeat to Splyce and easily took the series 3-0.


This forced another showdown between Splyce and Epsilon in the grand finals. Unlike the back and forth winner’s bracket finals Splyce simply could not find their footing. The time between series may have allowed them to cool off while the Epsilon crew got more warmed up defeating Fnatic and came out incredibly strong in the finals.


For Epsilon to win the tournament they would have to defeat Splyce in two separate best of 5 series and they were able to impressively do just that without dropping a single map. Earning back-to-back sweeps while coming out of the loser’s bracket against the team that defeated you is something nearly unheard of making for an incredible finish to the event. This was made even more inspiring by the fact Epsilon captain Joshua “Joshh” Shephard used to play for Splyce but formed a new team in order to defeat the European god squad.


If you missed any of the action and would like to watch some of the games for yourself you can find the VoDs here.


For the tournament bracket, complete final standings and prize distribution go here.


To see final point totals of each team after Birmingham you can check here.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
