Both the North American and European League of Legends Champions Series (LCS) have their finals set after semi final action completed this weekend on both sides of the Atlantic. Read more in our LCS Spring 2017 Semi Finals Recap.

Previous League of Legends Coverage

– 2016 League of Legends World Finals
– NA Spring Relegation Coverage
– 2016 League of Legends World Finals


In North America both TSM and Cloud9 advanced through their semi final matchups with ease taking 3-0 victories over FlyQuest and Phoenix1 respectively. For long time fans of the North American LCS this should come as no surprise. There has never been an LCS in North America without TSM marking their 9th consecutive final appearance, an astounding statistic by any metric.


Cloud9 are also no strangers to the finals however as they too have been one of the most dominant teams in North American LCS history since their inception. The organization exploded onto the scene when they took a team from the promotion tournament into the finals after the first ever LCS split. Since then they have only missed two final appearances themselves, truly making this a battle between the North American heavyweights.


Despite losing this weekend FlyQuest and Phoenix1 have their own match to play to determine who will finish in third place overall. That match will occur this Saturday April 22 at 3:00PM Eastern while the Finals between TSM and Cloud9 will take place at the same time on the following day.  You can watch the action live on the official Riot Games Twitch Stream.


Over in Europe teams faced slightly more competition heading into the finals this past weekend making the series more entertaining to watch. Both series went to four games however in the end G2 was able to defeat Fnatic while Unicorns of Love bested Misfits in decisive victories securing their spots in the European finals.


As in North America the season is not over for Fnatic and Misfits as they will go head to head Saturday April 22 as well at 11:00AM Eastern. These third place matches are still of great importance as they award championship points which qualify teams for the World Championship at the end of the year.


The following day G2 and Unicorns of Love will square off to determine who becomes the European Spring champions. These games can also be viewed on the official Riot Games Twitch Stream and will directly proceed the North American action. With so much on the line these are the two days of the LCS you won’t want to miss.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
