The spring split of the League of Legends Champion Series (LCS) has come to a close in both Europe and North America this past weekend as both regions had their finals and third place matches. Read more in our LCS Spring Finals Recap.


Previous League of Legends Coverage
Spring 2017 Semi Final Recap
NA Spring Relegation Coverage
2016 League of Legends World Finals


Action began in Europe on Saturday with the consolation match between Fnatic and Misfits. The veteran presence and star power on Fnatic truly shined in the series, making quick work of Misfits in a 3-0 series win. Fnatic was lead by the phenomenal play of AD carry Martin “Rekkles” Larsson to two victories in under thirty minutes and none that took longer than forty making the series feel fairly one sided.


The consolation match in North America on the other hand was far more competitive as Phoenix1 and FlyQuest would go the full five games to decide the victor. Phoenix1 started the series strong with a decisive thirty minute victory in game one only to have FlyQuest respond with a similar victory of their own in game two. Game three proved to be far closer however FlyQuest was able to ride the momentum of their game two win to secure yet another victory putting them just one game away from taking the series.


With their backs against the wall Phoenix1 came out incredibly strong in game four and were able to use a few early kills in the mid lane to snowball their advantage en route to a decisive victory. Game give saw Phoneix1 sticking to a similar strategy and punishing FlyQuest’s mid lane. Despite some excellent team fights from FlyQuest to prolong the game and give themselves hope the early advantage Phoenix1 gained proved to be too strong and saw them secure a 3-2 series win.


The following day saw the finals for both regions take place and the series were even better than the day before. G2 Esports looked to continue their regional dominance against Unicorns of Love starting the series strong with two dominant victories. Determined to prevent the sweep, Unicorns of Love edged out an incredibly close victory on the back of their AD carry Samuel “Samux” Fernández Fort. Despite the inspiring victory the Unicorns were unable to carry that momentum into their fourth game, allowing G2 to once again call themselves the kings of Europe.


Over in North America things would again be more intense as fan favourites Cloud9 and Team SoloMid required the full five games to crown the North American champion. The series went all TSM at first as they came out of the gate with two incredibly dominating performances giving them an early two game advantage in the best of five forcing Cloud9 to win three straight in order to become the champs.


With their backs against the wall Cloud9 was able to make game three a much longer affair, lasting nearly fifty minutes, and secure a victory for themselves to bring life back into the series. After securing their initial victory the roster appeared invigorated and put on a very impressive performance leading to a decisive game four victory forcing a final winner take all scenario.


Much like the series game five was an incredibly close back and forth matchup where the winner was uncertain until the final moments. The teams traded kills for the majority of the game giving no team a major advantage until Cloud9 secured the baron around the forty-minute mark. In the ensuing teamfight TSM Mid laner Søren “Bjergsen” Bjerg was able to secure a crucial kill allowing TSM to win the teamfight and shortly thereafter, the entire game.


The weekend fulfilled all expectations that fans could have had for a finals weekend providing excellent back and forth action. In securing the regional titles both TSM and G2 Esports have now qualified for the Mid Season Invitational International event before the start of the 2017 Summer Split.


If you missed any of the action from the weekend and want to watch the VoD’s yourself you can do so here.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
