After a thrilling conclusion to the season two finals just a few short weeks ago Apex has already begun its third season of elite Overwatch competition. Two of the best teams from the Western world, Rogue and Team EnVyUs have joined the best Korean teams in Seoul, South Korea for an elite 16-team competition. Read more about OGN APEX Season 3.

Previous Apex Coverage

– Season 2 Finals Coverage
– Quarter Finals Coverage
– Semi Finals Coverage

The first match has been played in each group now allowing fans to see some of the top Korean teams compete once again while the Western invites await their first matches later this week.

The first series saw the returning champions Lunatic-Hai immediately enter the competition however their first match was not the dominant performance fans expected. They faced off against KongDoo Panthera and were dominated in the first game on Illios losing both maps. The second match was played on Eichenwalde and although Lunatic-Hai fared better, moving the payload through two of the checkpoints, KD Panthera was ultimately able to push the payload through the entire map and secure a victory and 2-0 lead in the series.

These losses lit a spark under Lunatic-Hai and a new team emerged for the rest of the series easily winning game three on Volskaya Industries. The final two games of the series would return to the payload and hybrid maps of Dorado and King’s Row but this time Lunatic-Hai would manage to narrowly get the better of KD Panthera taking both maps, and the series, three games to two.

Immediately after that thrilling season opener we got to see the other finalist from last season, Runaway, square off against Afreeca Freecs Blue. The series began in a similar fashion to the previous one, with AF Blue shocking everyone and jumping out to an early two game lead after a decisive victory on Illios and an uncommon hold on the streets phase on Numbani. Unlike Lunatic-Hai, Runaway would not be able to turn the series around however and would fall in the third game on Volskaya. Despite capping both points they allowed AF Blue to do the same and were unable to get themselves a point in the overtime thus dropping the game and being upset in the series with a 3-0 sweep.

The final two series of the initial week were less back and forth and the results were much closer to what was expected. LW Blue and Meta Athena both emerged victorious from their first round matchups against CONBOX Spirit and the BK stars respectively taking the series three games to one.

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
