The second season of OGN’s Apex Overwatch tournament concluded on Saturday April 8th as Runaway squared off against Lunatic-Hai in an incredible back and forth best of seven series. Apex is the premier competitive Overwatch tournament taking place before the official Overwatch league begins in quarter three of this year. The tournament took place in Seoul, South Korea. Read what happened in our OGN Apex Season Two Coverage.

Previous Apex Coverage
– Quarter Finals Coverage
– Semi Finals Coverage
– Consolation Match Coverage


The action began on the only Control Point map of the series, Oasis. It set the tone for the series as an an intense back and forth matchup taking all three points to decide the victor with the final map of the three being decided 100-99 in favour of Runaway. This put them in a fantastic position to take the rest of the series as King’s Row and Temple of Annubis were two of Lunatic-Hai’s best maps and would not be included in the match rotation for the finals.


The second match took place on the hybrid map Hollywood. Lunatic-Hai would start the map on offense and quickly capture the first point and push to the end of the second point without contention. Runaway effectively used ultimates to successfully stall, and despite Lunatic-Hai pushing through the second point Runaway took enough time off the clock to prevent them from pushing the payload all the way to the end of the map.


Lunatic-Hai then started the second half extremely well nearly achieving a full hold on Runaway however they overextended in the final minute allowing Runaway to secure the payload. From there the map would be all Runaway, effectively using their ultimates to wipe Lunatic-Hai from the map time after time and easily pushing the payload to secure the win and an early two game lead in the series.


This would put Lunatic-Hai in a precarious situation as they had just dropped what many considered to be their best two maps in the series. This would not deter them however, and they played an incredible game on Volskaya Industries securing both points with a single prolonged push. On the defensive end they were able to significantly run down the clock on the first point and prevent Runaway from securing the second point. This gave them a much-needed victory in the series and prevented them from having to reverse sweep.


The fourth game was the first payload map of the series however it would play out very similarly to the hybrid match in game two. Runaway was able to successfully push the payload through Route 66 to completion beginning the game on offense. Although Lunatic-Hai were able to hold until overtime this then forced them to respond with a full push of their own. They did not get the start they wanted, taking nearly the full amount of allotted time to push past the first checkpoint however they managed to roll through the second point nearly uncontested. This set the stage for an intense third and final point however Runaway was able to hold on and secure the victory. Runaway now only had to win one of the next three games to become the Apex champions.


Game five would be the second two-CP map of the series and Lunatic-Hai would assert their dominance on this game type. Despite good early offense from Runaway, Lunatic-Hai was able to fully hold the second point on Hanamura to give themselves an opportunity to win. With their backs against the wall Lunatic-Hai came out aggressively and was able to capture the first point while staggering the deaths of Runaway members. This allowed them to enter the second point with a man advantage and quickly secure it to give themselves the victory and stay alive in the series.


Game six saw a return to the payload game type this time on Dorado. Lunatic-Hai came out firing on all cylinders to quickly push through the first two and a half points without any opposition. Runaway realized at that point they had to make a stand, and were able to defend for over five minutes before finally allowing Lunatic-Hai to fully push the payload with four seconds remaining. This final push gave Lunatic-Hai renewed energy heading into their defensive round on the map and they were able to mount an incredible hold at the first checkpoint playing it to perfection. This gave them another win forcing the final game seven and electrifying both the players of Lunatic-Hai and the crowd in the sold-out Tiger Dome Stadium.


Runaway was able to choose the map for the final determining hybrid game and surprisingly elected Eichenwalde over Numbani. Lunatic-Hai again had a fantastic start and pushed the payload all the way to the end of what might be one of the most defensively favoured maps in all of Overwatch. The task ahead for Runaway was monumental and it seemed they realized that as they no longer appeared to have the same energy they did just a few games prior. They struggled to secure the first point for themselves allowing Lunatic-Hai to defend the second checkpoint with ease. What looked like an early sweep from Runaway had just been turned, Lunatic-Hai became the champions.


The series was a beautiful climax to the compelling story behind the second season of OGN Apex.  While the Cinderella moment of Runaway going from relegations to champions in a single season was denied Lunatic-Hai were finally able to secure themselves a tournament victory despite being considered the best team in the world and falling in two previous grand finals. All twelve players involved demonstrated at various moments through the series why they were considered the best players in the world on some of their best champions putting on incredible performances worthy of commendation. However there can only be one victor and for now the players on Lunatic-Hai have earned the right to call their team the best in the world.


Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
