INSIDE GAMER NEWS: CWL DALLAS

 14 MAR , 2017
CWL Dallas Recap
Image Source: @MLG https://twitter.com/MLG/status/843633127507542016


CWL Dallas Recap

The final open event of the Call of Duty World League took place this weekend in Dallas, Texas.  176 of the best teams from around the world gathered to compete for $200 000 in prize money and the final chance to earn qualifying points for the first stage of the Call of Duty Pro League.

If you missed the action live and want to watch it for yourself you can find all of the VoD’s from this weekend here.

Want more CWL news? Check out more highlights below:

Call of Duty World League: 5 Important Rules To Know
Optic Gaming Win The CWL Paris Open
EUnited Win The CWL Atlanta Open

Optic Gaming Takes the Crown from eUnited

Entering as one of the heavy favourites for the event it was no surprise that the weekend ended with Optic in the Grand Finals. On the other hand despite winning CWL Atlanta some believed the success of eUnited was a fluke, and this tournament they were determined to prove those people wrong.

The finals was an entertaining back and forth slugfest that required all 10 games to be played before Optic was eventually crowned the champions, winning the final series 3-2. This was the second event in a row the two teams had met in the finals but this time Optic managed to emerge the victor.

After going 4-0 in the group stage Optic proceeded to defeat Luminosity, Splyce and Faze Clan in the Winners Bracket en route to the finals.

The road for eUnited was more difficult suffering a shocking upset loss to the 18th seeded Kaliber during pool play.

After defeating Enigma6 in the first round of the champion bracket eUnited would again suffer defeat this time at the hands of Faze Clan in a hard fought 3-2 series.

In the loser’s bracket, eUnited would handily defeat both EnVyUs and Splyce 3-0 before getting revenge against Faze Clan in a 3-1 victory during the loser’s bracket finals.

Despite Optics impressive play over the course of the weekend eUnited did not go down without a fight. After going down 2-0 in the grand finals the CWL Atlanta champs fought back and got the reverse sweep against Optic to force the second best of five series.

The next series began in similar fashion and eUnited quickly found themselves in yet another 2-0 hole. They again battled back to force a final game five but it appeared they were out of steam falling 6-0 in the final match of the tournament.

Seth “Scumper” Abner from Optic Gaming was dubbed the KontrolFreek MVP of the event.

For the full list of results from the event, including team prize earnings and pro points awarded go here.

To see final point totals of each team after Dallas you can check here.


Writer Biography

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. Favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.

Twitter: https://twitter.com/David_Throop
