The Overwatch World Cup is the largest international Overwatch competition. The event is produced and hosted by Blizzard and will take November 3/4th in Anaheim, California.

After weeks of international competition the final 8 teams that will be advancing to Blizzcon to compete at the World Cup have been decided. The final group’s to finish play were G and H, which included nations such as The United States of America as well as the United Kingdom. These are two nations that have gigantic Overwatch player bases, and were therefore considered favorites to qualify.

After advancing through their groups with ease the two teams found themselves in the Round of 16 with only a single match standing between them and an appearance at the World Cup. Both nations were able to handle their contests with ease, emerging from the Round of 16 on the back of 3-0 sweeps. For America, this meant ending the hopes and dreams of the German national team, while the UK defeated the Chinese Taipei.

This means that we know now the eight teams that will be in attendance, as well who team’s will be initially facing.

Canada begins with one of the better possible matchups, taking on Australia to start the tournament.With Australia likely being the worst out of the eight remaining teams, this is a gigantic break for Canadian players and their fans.
Things won’t be as easy for the UK or America however, who have to face Sweden and South Korea respectively, two of the highest ranked nations in the game. The final match in the round of 8 will see the French face off against China, in what should be an incredibly exciting match between the West and Asia.

There are some interesting implications in this bracket, The first is that South Korea and China are on the same side, despite many analysts and experts ranking them as the top 2 countries in the World. Canada is on the side of the bracket that is far less intimidating, however a victory over Sweden will be necessary to advance to the finals. For America the road will be much harder, needing to beat South Korea as well as either China or France, neither of which will prove to be an easy feat. All of this action begins on November 3rd, at Blizzcon.

For official information on the Overwatch World Cup including brackets, match information and more check out the official Blizzard World Cup page.
