Gambit Gaming have proven themselves to be the current kings of counter strike after a dominating performance in Krakow at the PGL Major. The tournament was held using a Swiss format for groups, meaning teams had to win a total of 3 games against other teams with a similar record in order to advance. The format received criticism over the course of the tournament due to best of one series causing upsets, and random seeding causing some teams to have far more difficult paths to the playoffs than others.

Join The CS:GO Canadian Championship Series

While the first two rounds were relatively easy for Gambit, the third round would see them square off against Virtus Pro on Train. The match proved to be the closest of their three group stage rounds however a 16-11 victory secured Gambit’s playoff berth.

Gambit immediately found themselves in a more difficult situation in the first round of the playoffs facing off against Fnatic. The matches were the two closest for Gambit so far but despite Fnatic’s best efforts they were unable to stop the Russian roster, and Gambit advanced without suffering a loss.

In the semi-finals Gambit ran into an Astralis team that had only suffered a single defeat in the tournament so far and would not go down without a fight. Although Gambit was able to get out to an early lead after securing a victory in game 1, a dominating performance in game 2 from Astralis handed Gambit their first defeat of the tournament and sent the series to a deciding game 3. Gambit was able to secure the series in the final game, sending them to the finals.

Waiting for them in the final matchup was an Immortals squad that had gone through a much longer road to get there, and was ready to demonstrate they were serious. The series began with an astounding 16-4 victory for first Immortals on Cobblestone. After going through the tournament with few challenges, Gambit now had to win back to back matches to take home the victory.

Rediscovering their form in game Gambit was able to secure a 16-11 victory on Train before taking the deciding match on Inferno 16-10 to become the Krakow champions and bring home the $500 000 grand prize.

For details on the round by round action, prize breakdown and more go here.

Join The CS:GO Canadian Championship Series

There is no shortage of counter strike action in the coming weeks, August 22nd marks the beginning of ESL Pro League for both North America and Europe. A short week later the best teams in the world will assemble in Malmo, Sweden to again for a $250 000 grand prize. For a full list of the teams invited, talent, prize distributions and more check out the tournament page.
