Fans of the Greenwall can finally rejoice. After suffering yearly defeats at the largest Call of Duty tournament, OpTic Gaming has finally been able to claim the throne, and a $600 000 purse for themselves.

The path was not easy for OpTic this year. Suffering a loss in the Winner’s Bracket Finals to Team EnVyUs did not deter the Greenwall but instead motivated them to get their revenge. After advancing through the Loser’s Bracket Finals the stage was set for OpTic to do just that.

Although OpTic was able to decisively secure the first game in the series, Team EnVyUS won the second in an equally impressive fashion. OpTic regained control of the series in the third match by handing EnVyUS their first Uplink defeat of the tournament. Building on this victory, OpTic edged out a narrow 250-204 win on Hardpoint to win the first series.

This effectively reset the bracket; it would all come down to one best five series between the two CoD powerhouses. The one thing teams could take with them into this series from the rest of the tournament was their current momentum, and OpTic was far ahead in this category.

The intense atmosphere of the first series lingered, but the series immediately went in only one direction. The Greenwall simply had too much force behind them and couldn’t be slowed down. Although EnVyUS was able to put up some good matches, they were ultimately swept 3-0 making OpTic Gaming the new CoD champs.

While OpTic has traditionally been one of CoD’s best teams, they had never been able to take home a CWL Championship until this year. This was true for superstars Seth ‘Scump’ Abner and Matthew ‘FormaL’ Piper as well, earning their first rings. Their other two teammates are not quite as new to victory though, this is Ian ‘Crimsix’ Porter’s second championship and Damon ‘Karma’ Barlow’s third.

For EnVyUs the defeat was heartbreaking, coming so close only to fall short. Their $200 000 in prize money should act as a consolation however.

With CoD WWII on the horizon, fans and competitors alike are looking at that title for future. If this tournament will serve as any indication, expect the GreenWall to come out swinging.
