World Gaming: Why don’t you start by introducing yourself and giving us a brief overview of your career as a Street Fighter professional?

BlitzMan: My name is Matthew Lam, and I’m from Richmond Hill, Ontario. My gamertag is StDxBlitzMan and I’m currently on team SetToDestroyX as their professional Street Fighter 5 player. I’ve been playing fighting games my whole life but have been playing competitively for various games in tournaments for about 13 years and counting. I’m always trying to promote the Canadian E-Sports scene! Read more in our Blitzman Interview.

World Gaming: How would you describe the quality of the overall Canadian Fighting Game Community? Do we have enough tournaments and players? Anything you can think of to improve or strengthen that community locally?

BlitzMan: I think the quality of the Canadian FGC is actually quite high in certain cities like Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver, Calgary and Edmonton but I cannot judge the rest of the nation as well because the opportunities to travel for them aren’t as high. There aren’t as many major tournament events in Canada compared to the US, so the opportunity to play world class players doesn’t arrive often for many Canadian players.

Since most cities in Canada have local weeklies or monthly tournaments, I’d recommend going out to them as often as possible to play as many people as you can! The fastest way to improve would be to play more, play with your community and try and have fun with the game.

World Gaming: What have been your thoughts on Street Fighter 5? Discussion around the competitive side of the game seems to focus on how ‘random’ it can be at times with many matches being 50/50 even with vast skill differentials?

BlitzMan: The game has been out for about 2 years now and Capcom has decided to update/balance Street Fighter annually. I enjoyed season 1 a lot more because the game was more about spacing and calculated play, but this past January 2017 Capcom shifted the balancing of the game to allow more come back potential and 50/50 coin flip scenarios that could win the game off one guess. Street Fighter now, with input delay and the shift of the balancing has made the game more random and it’s receiving a lot of backlash from the community. It should be a well known fact by now. However there is some degree of consistency, just like poker, but the better player may not always win. Luck plays such a huge factor in Street Fighter 5 compared to older fighting game titles.

That being said, I’m still super happy about the opportunities that Street Fighter 5 has provided for the entire Fighting Game Community around the world and I just hope Capcom continues supporting the community and works on making the game better for everyone.

World Gaming: It seems many people prefered Street Fighter 4 to the current iteration. Can you help explain why that is the case? What things have been changed that make 5 less competitive?

BlitzMan: There are numerous reasons why the previous title is prefered to casual and even some competitive players. Street Fighter 4 required strict timing on big combos for high damage that required practice. There are some combos that only certain/specific people in the world can perform in a tournament setting. Think of it like a musician hitting all of the perfect notes in sync in front of a screaming audience, not everyone can do it. Options players have in a fighting game play a big part in how a player expresses themselves through their character.

In Street Fighter 5 everything skill related from previous titles was toned down for the casual audience in a plan to get more players invested in their game, however Capcom failed to do so by releasing a product with no content for the casual gamer. A lot of gamers enjoy the sense of self satisfaction when you beat a really hard level in a game or land a really long hard combo that took hours of practice that only you can do. Street Fighter 5 just doesn’t give you a rewarding feeling when you just do a sequence of buttons anyone can do and the game comes down to one 50/50 decision. With less options to avoid the casual gamer from being confused or scared, the game gets more repetitive. The online game functions for Street Fighter 5 don’t work 50% of the time either, so if you don’t have local people to play with it’s hard just to have fun with the game, let alone play it.

World Gaming: How have you felt about your recent performances? Is there anything specific you are working on or doing in order to improve at the moment?

BlitzMan: I haven’t been traveling or competing as much this year and as a result I haven’t been performing as well as I did last year. I dislike the direction of balancing this year with the increased strength of 50/50 coin flip characters, so I decided to learn one this season. The only problem is, so is everyone else. I realized, I’m not the luckiest person at guessing coin flips (haha). That being said I’m still practicing with local players and am playing with the newer generation of fighting game players to promote and grow the Fighting Game Community.

World Gaming: Where will people be able to watch you compete next? Any upcoming events that you already know to be attending?

BlitzMan: The biggest events I’m planning on attending this year are Evolution 2017 in Las Vegas Nevada, Southern California Regionals 2017 in Anaheim California, Canada Cup 2017 Toronto, and the Toronto Red Bull E-Sport events.

World Gaming: Where can people find you to stay up to date? Anybody you’d like to thank?

BlitzMan: You can follow me on twitter @StDxBlitzman or see updates of me on my team’s twitter @SettoDestroyX. I might start streaming again soon and you can watch that at www.twitch.tv/Blitzman_G

I’d like to thank everyone from the Canadian E-Sports/FGC community for supporting me in anyway and just being a part of it. I’d like to give a BIG thanks to my Boss/Owner of my team (SetToDestroyX) Charlie Watson for supporting and believing in me. Finally once again, thank you to everyone at World Gaming and Cineplex for bringing the Canadian E-Sports community more opportunities and life to the Canadian gaming community!

Dave Throop is a decade long esports fanatic from Toronto. Originating in console FPS and sports games he has since expanded to PC games and MOBAs to become a fan of nearly all major competitive titles across multiple platforms. His favourite titles include Halo, Overwatch and League of Legends.
